Markets remain relatively buoyant
hopeful.
>> That bounce back that you have is
warranted.
>> We're clearly pricing out a lot of the
tourists.
>> Stock market has been the most [music]
accurate indicator of where the economy
is going. If you're looking six months
out, I still think we're higher than
where we are here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide.
>> Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday at all-time highs. A
record-breaking chip surge powering the
US stock market rally as capital [music]
expenditures at Tesla is set to exceed
$25 billion.
The tech boom [music] insulating
equities from a prolonged crisis in the
Middle East. Crude back in triple
digits.
>> And really that's framed perfectly
because on one hand you have this huge
[music] face-off in the markets of oil
prices on the one hand. And then on the
other, the AI hopes and dreams that are
coming through in a lot of the earnings.
You can see for example chip stocks 16
straight day of of gains, which is the
longest run ever in history. That index
is on its on its on pace for its biggest
monthly gain going back to 2000. At the
same time that yes, you're seeing record
highs with incredibly narrow breadth
because of all of what we're seeing
[music] under the hood tied to oil
prices. How much is this rally being
kept down frankly even though people say
we can just hit more records again and
again and again?
>> Look at what companies are doing. Let's
pick three. Let's go with Tesla tripling
CapEx for the year ahead. That's them.
Texas Instruments [music] raising their
outlook. Strong guide from them. Strong
forecast. GE Vernova, they make the big
nat gas turbines for the big data
centers. Their order book at the
electrification unit was bigger last
quarter than all of last year, which
speaks [music] to the tech boom we're
seeing right now in this country.
>> Those three companies perfectly
exemplify what's going on right now
because you saw Texas Instruments and GE
Vernova both shoot the moon, right? You
saw a complete welcoming of those
results because they showed how much
[music] they're winning from the tech
investments. Tesla, another story. They
came out, they beat expectations, but it
turns out they're not a car company.
They're using their car revenues to fuel
all of the autonomous driving as well as
the robotics that they have in place.
And the capex is actually causing some
skepticism around the share. So, is this
sort of a template for what's to come
for the big tech players report next
week?
>> This is the tension. It's a tug-of-war
[music] between two different time
horizons, the future, a positive one for
US tech. Got all of that. The present,
[music] pretty dire over in the Middle
East. The confidence seems to be around
the idea that the president is committed
to de-escalation, that this won't be a
prolonged [music] supply issue, it will
be a transient shock. And then you see
this from the Washington Post.
>> [music]
>> This story right here. It could take 6
months to fully clear the Strait of
Hormuz of mines deployed by the Iranian
military.
>> What does reopening the strait entail?
What does it mean? How close are we? And
what is open enough to comfort the
market that there will be enough supply
to actually keep this economy [music]
going. There is a complete disconnect
between the people who we speak to in
the physical world and the people who we
speak to in the theoretical world who
have a lot more hope. What you can see
though in the prediction markets is
people are ratcheting back their
expectations for when there's an all
clear in [music] the Middle East. It's
getting harder to see when that could
actually happen. And again, the time
horizon of when this creates economic
damage continues to be in focus and
people keep kicking the can down the
road in terms of what they say really
will be pernicious.
>> Welcome back. I should have started with
that.
>> You caught up with Scott Kirby with
United Airlines yesterday.
>> [music]
>> Big question for all of us, is summer
canceled or not? What's happening with
flights and how much are they going to
cost?
>> What he said is the transatlantic
flights will be prioritized. And before
you start to not be able to go to the
south of Italy, they will cancel all of
the regional flights in Europe in order
to prioritize that corridor and all of
the international flights. That said,
there is going to be constraint and that
is what you can see. [music] He's
looking forward at it as an opportunity
to potentially pick up assets, but what
that indicates is there's severe pain
and Uh, you know, we're hearing about
government bailouts again for the
airlines at a time of real distress.
>> Uncomfortable choices, uncomfortable
[music] trade-offs, and the data in
Europe uncomfortably bad throughout this
morning so far. Equity futures stateside
on the S&P 500 negative by 0.5% [music]
pulling back slightly from all-time
highs. Coming up this hour we'll catch
up with Keith Lerner of Truist with
stocks pulling back from those records.
Victoria Coates of the Heritage
Foundation with the US and Iran
deadlocked, [music] and Paul Sankey of
Sankey Research with crude back in
triple digits. We begin this hour with
that top story. The US calling on Iran
to restart peace talks. Bring back to
Jamila Abu-Sachi leading our coverage in
the region and joins us now for more.
Jamila, are we any closer to those
talks?
>> It doesn't appear to be the case, John.
And you know, yesterday once again the
White House reiterating that they're
waiting to hear from Tehran on their
version of a new peace proposal. It
hasn't come through. And what we have
got instead is a post once again from
the Iranian president overnight Masoud
Pezeshkian saying they do want to return
back to dialogue, but a breach of
commitments, the blockade, and threats
are the main obstacles to genuine
negotiations. And here once again
referring to the fact that as long as
the US naval blockade remains in place,
they will not be returning back to the
negotiation table. That is the stance
that they have consistently been
portraying over the last couple of days,
and it seems very unlikely at this point
that we're going to get another round of
diplomatic discussions despite the
mediators' best efforts. So the
attention in the last 24 hours has
really shifted to what has been
happening around the Strait of Hormuz
because there is an impasse there, but
that's not to say that it's safe or
uneventful. In fact, there've been
several incidents in the last 24 hours.
Pretty dangerous. The UK Navy reporting
that two ships were fired on. IRGC then
seized a couple of vessels as well. At
the US their part
caused a two or or um, made a two uh,
uh, laden they were laden with oil
vessels turn around uh, and CENTCOM
releasing an update this morning
suggesting that they have caused 31
vessels to change routes over the course
of this blockade that has been going on
for more than a week now. And so what
you have here is obviously a battle of
the straits uh, but essentially a battle
of wills because the question here is
timing. Iran's calculation is that the
longer this goes on for the more you're
going to see uplifts on the price of
oil. Eventually that's going to feed
back to the US consumer. It's going to
test President Trump's patience and
bring him to the table to for another
round of negotiations or at least to
wind up this war quickly. The US is
calculus is that the longer this goes on
for the more you're going to start uh,
eliciting a lot of pain on the Iranian
economy. President Trump is saying that
it's costing them $500 a day. We haven't
been able to verify those numbers, but
the point is it is a battle of wills
alongside the battle of the straits. Uh,
and we've got whether either or both
sides will be willing to lift the
blockade in order to move to a next
round of negotiations. The alternative
though is still a resumption of
hostilities. So that's still a
possibility.
>> A high stakes potentially lethal
blinking contest taking place right now.
Jamila, thank you. Jamila Bayazid out of
Dubai this morning. Crude Brent uh, for
a fourth consecutive day 103.80
so far this morning. That's the
situation in the Middle East. This is
the view on Wall Street this morning.
Keith Lerner of Truist writing the
weight of the evidence continues to
suggest that the bull market deserves
the benefit of the doubt and we would
view weakness as an opportunity. Keith
joins us now for more. Keith, welcome to
the program. I've got two whys. Why do
you believe the bull market deserves the
benefit of the doubt? Why do you think
that a weakness is an opportunity?
>> Yeah, well great to be with you all.
Well, the first thing is I think the
bull market has earned it. Um, this bull
market has been battle tested through a
series of shocks from high inflation to
fast uh, paced interest rates.
And each time um the these companies
have adapted and we're seeing profit
margins continue to expand and we're
seeing forward earning estimates at new
highs, not only in the S&P, but also by
the, you know, by mid caps, small caps,
and even emerging markets as well. So,
this I don't want to be Pollyannish
either, Jonathan. I think there is some
uncertainty. We just had a
um
you know, a a nice rally off the lows,
so it would be perfectly normal to see
some backing and filling after this. But
the last point is we also know, I think
there's so much focus on Iran and the
situation there, which is important, but
let's not lose sight of the the dominant
theme of this bull market, which you all
talked about, is AI and tech, and that
story is likely not changing. In some
ways, it looks like it's actually
accelerating.
>> Keith, 16 days. Lisa mentioned it, 16
days of gains for the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index, a powerful rally.
One of the best months we've seen, by
the way, in about 25 years for that
particular index. Keith, when you look
at those moves, and when I look at where
we bottomed, do you think we're still
under appreciate the relationship
between this rally and say Meta and
Anthropic, and perhaps we're looking too
much towards the escalation in what's
been developing in the Middle East?
>> Yeah, I I I do, and you know, we were
when we were selling off in March, we
were highlighting the technology that it
be, you know, the valuations got to a 20
PE,
which was lower than the than the
terrorist shock of last year, and the
premium relative to the market shrunk to
the lowest level in over a decade. And
one thing we just looked at, Jonathan, I
thought was really interesting. We
looked at the peak to trough change in
the valuation or the compression of the
valuation for the tech sector, you know,
over the last several months. It was
37%.
We went from a 32 PE to a 20. When we
look back to this decade, that's the
most severe compression we've seen out
of any of the pullbacks, more than
COVID, more than the terrorist shock,
and you can argue that there was
actually more uncertainty in some of
these other areas as well. So, I think
we've reset pretty well. The earnings
momentum, by far, is the strongest in
the market, And the
forward earning estimates are being
revised higher over the last 3 months by
almost 20%. That's about double the S&P.
So, I think all in all, kind of this
tech story moved to the back burner and
now it's moving towards the front the
forefront again. And again, after this
big move, are we going to be able are we
going to pull back a little bit? Maybe.
But last point on tech is it just it
just moved above the October high. So,
since the October high, we're up
0.2%. So, I ultimately I think this bull
market and tech has further for that to
go.
>> Where in tech though, Keith? And this is
a big question mark under putting this
rally given the fact that right now the
picks and shovels of tech seem to be
rallying. We're seeing the
semiconductors. We're seeing the memory
chips. We're seeing the energy side of
things to even over with respect to some
of the way that they're electrifying
some of the data centers. Going forward,
do you think that next week is going to
be a gut check in terms of how the
market responds to additional CapEx
plans?
>> It likely will be, but I also think you
know, as long as these earning estimates
continue to get revised higher, I think
the market will be okay if CapEx
continues to be at a rapid pace. I don't
think anyone's really expecting much of
a of a pullback in CapEx. But really
what's
got the market's attention more recently
is there's there's a lack of
availability
for GPUs. And and as we as these models
are are getting becoming more powerful,
the demand for that will only grow. So,
listen, I don't think we're going to see
a big change in the CapEx story. I think
in some ways what we're seeing more
recently in the power of these models is
going to validate the the expansion of
that CapEx. I think more interesting
will be see like what we're going to
what are we going to hear about the
employment side cuz we're actually
starting to see a tick up in some of
those announcements as far as
displacement.
>> How do you treat that as an investor? I
mean, I know that from a psychological
perspective that has a pretty big hit
and we're seeing that take place even in
places like China. Some of the anecdotal
information suggests that there's a real
cram down on employment as a result of
AI.
Is that a good thing as an investor
because it reduces costs?
>> Yeah. I you know, in the long term it is
somewhat circular cuz we do need people
spending uh for to move the economy
forward, but I think it there's
different time frames on this and I
think in the short term, if if you see
profit margins continue to move up and
you're seeing the sales per employee or
cash flow per for per employee move up,
I think ultimately the market will
reward that. Now, again, there's
probably a greater story to be told from
an economic store perspective and and we
all know that, but I think in the near
term the market's going to focus on
profits.
>> Okay, that's the focus right now, that's
for sure. Thank you, sir. Keith Lerner
there of Truist. Netflix just moments
ago authorizing a buyback of additional
$25 billion in shares in a pre-market.
That stock erasing losses now positive
by around 1.7%, but look at the
consumer. I'm pleased you brought up the
labor market and the real economy.
Hilton up by 10% this month. Chipotle up
by 10% in April. Carver up by 20% this
month. Some interesting things going on
in the restaurant and hotel business as
well. You've seen some rallies there.
Even with this move in energy.
>> Part of the reason why is just the
resilience that you see in the consumer.
You were talking to Holly O'Neill
yesterday from Bank of America
highlighting just how robust things have
been. Scott Kirby of United yesterday
saying he's been surprised that there
hasn't been demand destruction even as
they raise prices. So, clearly there is
a consumer with money to spend. Where
they're spending it, the winners and the
losers definitely coming clear.
Mediterranean evidently triumphing over
say some other high-priced coffee.
>> Mike Darda published something recently
that I think is going to resonate with
you because you've alluded to this a few
times in the last 2 months. What if
instead we have an underlying boom
condition that has been partially
suppressed by geopolitical turmoil and
the energy shock?
>> That I think is what a lot of people are
saying is actually happening. That
you're seeing these upgrades to earnings
that would be even bigger upgrades. That
would have been a huge blowout type of
quarter had it not been for what we're
seeing over in the Middle East and the
resilience that you're seeing in the
underlying economy and frankly the
equity markets
exemplifies that more than anything
else. And I think that that is what
people are coalescing around and frankly
that is what record highs on the US
equity market speaks to.
>> Speaks to the data we've seen as well so
far. ADP jobs data was pretty decent,
retail sales pretty strong, jobless
claims a few hours away. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief and
pleased to say joining us now is Vanya
Quinn. Hey Vanya.
>> Hey John, thank you. President Donald
Trump saying the ceasefire will stay in
effect indefinitely until Iran comes to
the table with a new peace proposal.
[music] Iran saying it has no immediate
plans to take part in negotiations.
Iran's president posting on social media
that the US blockade and threats are the
main obstacles to diplomacy. [music]
The US military intercepted two Iranian
oil supertankers that were attempting to
evade its blockade. US Central Command
saying the two tankers are now anchored
at an Iranian port in the Gulf of Oman.
CENTCOM posting that the US has directed
29 vessels to turn around or return to
port [music] since the blockade began.
Tencent and Alibaba are in discussions
to join a funding round for China's Deep
Seek. [music] Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg Tencent has proposed the
acquisition of as much as 20% stake
[music] in the startup, though Deep Seek
isn't keen on ceding such a large
portion of [music] control. And that is
your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vanya, thank you. More from Vanya a
little bit later in the program. Up
next, playing the waiting game.
>> The president has not set a firm
deadline to receive an Iranian proposal.
The United States maintains control over
the situation, leverage over the Iranian
regime. The cards are in President
Trump's hands right now.
>> Up next we'll catch up with Victoria
Coates of the Heritage Foundation live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
>> [music]
>> Snap the two-day [music] losing streak
on the S&P 500 in yesterday's session.
This morning taking some of that back.
We're down by 0.5% on the S&P, down by
close to 0.6
>> [music]
>> on the Nasdaq 100. And it's Iran this
morning playing the waiting game.
>> The president has not set a firm
deadline to receive an Iranian proposal.
Ultimately, the timeline will be
dictated by the commander-in-chief and
the president of the United States. The
United States maintains control over the
situation, leverage over the Iranian
regime. Not only have they been
significantly weakened and obliterated
militarily, but they are are losing
economically and financially. The cards
are in President Trump's hands right
now.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Peace talks between the US and Iran at a
standstill. Iran saying it won't resume
negotiations unless the US ends its
naval blockade. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington for
more. Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, at this
point, the standoff in the Strait of
Hormuz is only worsening threatening the
potential timeline and prospects for a
deal. New this morning, the US military
saying that it has intercepted two
Iranian oil supertankers it says was
trying to evade the US naval blockade.
And at this point so far this week we've
only seen Iran try to move to tighten
its grip over the waterway and boost its
negotiating leverage. As data shows us
that the country is now moving its
supertankers into the Arabian Sea. And
yesterday, the IRGC came out and said
that it seized these two vessels in
retaliation for the US's efforts. Now,
White House press secretary Karoline
Leavitt went on there to say that the US
doesn't view these actions as violation
of the ceasefire. In particular, the
fact that the two vessels that Iran
seized were not American nor Israeli
flagged, but it's just going to
underscore the point of how dangerous
the conditions in the strait still
remain as a military assessment
presented to Congress and reported on by
the Washington Post is now estimating
that it could take up to 6 months to
clear 20 or more mines that Iran laid
and deployed in the Strait of Hormuz.
John, as you've been discussing on the
program, this White House says that the
timeline to reach a deal at this point
is indefinite, that the US wants to give
Iranian leadership time to come together
and present the US a plan, but we are
starting to learn a little bit more
about how the president is thinking
about the pressure of energy prices.
Axios reporting earlier this week, the
president could extend the waiver he has
issued on the Jones Act in a bid to help
out the consumer.
>> Tyler I can't do with the latest Tyler
thank you. There is a ceasefire. It's
difficult to make the case that things
are peaceful particularly given the
coverage we've heard from Tyler and
Chimena already this morning that the
Iranians have been firing on vessels and
seizing ships.
>> I was reading about the damage done to
an Indian ship that thought that it had
clearance to go through and then didn't
and then ended up in Iranian waters.
When you start talking about mines that
are embedded in the Strait of Hormuz
that might take 6 months to really
detonate highlights just how high the
bar really is to reopen the Strait in a
way that we were used to say a couple
months ago.
>> Let's build on this conversation.
Victoria Coates, the former Deputy
National Security Advisor to President
Trump writes in the following, "Iran has
sustained such systematic damage that
they really can't recover. Time is
entirely on the president's side."
Victoria joins us now for more.
Victoria, welcome to the program. We
called this at the top of the program a
high stakes blinking contest. Is Iran
willing to risk regime collapse and is
the US willing to continue to maximize
put maximum pressure exert maximum
pressure on the Iranians and take the
economic consequences that the global
economy might have to take?
>> Well, good morning Jonathan. I have to
be careful what I write on my expert cuz
I never know what you're going to read
back to me. But I stand [laughter] by
that.
I stand by that comment. I think that
you as we dive deeper into what's
happening in the Iranian economy. And
also the the other piece of this is the
fact that since they haven't been able
to get product out of the Gulf since the
blockade began, they're starting to fill
up their storage on Kharg Island. And
they're going to wind up at a point in a
matter of days. I they might have a week
or 2 weeks, but I think it's a shorter
period
where they're going to have to start
thinking about capping wells. And that's
not a good thing. That could really do
permanent damage to their their oil
reserves. And they have the second
largest oil reserves on the on the
planet. It's one of their great
strengths. That's going to be a decision
point for them. So, I do think that the
pressure that is building on the
Iranians, I mean, they have to restart
their economy. They need to turn their
internet back on, their stock market
back on. But most of all, they need to
start being able to get product to
market. So, if if that these days go by,
they're going to have to make that
existential decision you described and
make a choice between economic collapse
and potentially preserving the regime.
>> Victoria, do you have confidence that
this is a logical kind of regime in Iran
that the United States is dealing with
in the matter of financial collapse
being enough of a threat to really bring
them to the table? And I ask this
because so many people have come on this
show and said their goal is simply
survival.
>> Well, I I wouldn't ever call them
rational, Alicia. I think that they are,
you know, right now at very cornered. I
you know, you've had the decimation of
the 40 top leaders in the first day of
this action against them. And so,
they're still trying to recover from
that. Nobody knows where the supreme
leader is. He's been supreme leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei for more than a
month and he hasn't even published a
video greeting the Iranian people. You
know, famously he was a cardboard cutout
at the announcement of his appointment.
So, you know, this is not in any way a
stable, normal functioning government.
They also can't communicate. They're
worried the Israelis are in their their
cell phones probably for pretty good
reason. And so they're they're passing
notes back and forth. And that's part of
the delay in the in the negotiations.
You know, the president wants to make
sure he has somebody with the authority
to make those decisions at the table.
And it's not clear that person has
emerged yet.
>> One difficulty and one reason why a
number of strategists have been really
pessimistic is they don't see a way, a
path to an end that leaves the Strait of
Hormuz open, free trade and commerce
going through that, and the current
regime in place. How do you see this
playing out in a way that brings the
Strait of Hormuz back to sort of the
free flow of commerce that we were
familiar with a couple months ago?
>> Well, I don't think we're going to
return to sort of business as usual in
Iran. I don't think there's a universe
in which the regime can reconstitute
itself as it was. Right, I would go back
really to to early December of last year
and the the kind of control it was able
to exert over its people. And this will
be a very fluid period. And I know
that's that's that's disruptive and and
concerning for a lot of folks. But at
the same time, you know, the other thing
that's happening to them is they've
stopped being able to pay the salaries
of their security apparatus. The IRGC,
the Islamic Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps, that's the key to their being
able to control the country physically,
is is stopped paying its its people. And
their police are stopped being paid as
well. So that's going to create some
more disruption within Iran as the
people of Iran realize that that what's
kept them down, the people who carried
out that horrible massacre in January,
maybe aren't as loyal as they were at
that time. Because quite simply, they're
not being paid. So so I agree, this is
this is going to be very fluid. We're
going to have something different on the
other side. And hopefully with the
strength of the United States at that if
that weakened entity is not able to
assemble the same kind of power the old
government of Iran was, you know, will
be able to establish that control you're
talking about over the strait and ensure
the free patch of passage of shipping.
>> Victoria, just a final question, just
briefly, if you can. You've worked with
the president on high-profile foreign
policy issues. There is a comfort in
this market right now that the president
is committed to de-escalation. In your
mind, what would it take to return to
hostilities?
>> It would take a provocative action by
the Iranians. I mean, President Trump
has wanted that as the resort from the
beginning. He has offered diplomacy
repeatedly to resolve this issue, but if
the Iranians make a horrible decision,
and they don't have a great track record
in that, they generally do make horrible
decisions, you know, then we I think
you'll see the reapplication of American
might.
>> Victoria, thank you. Always appreciate
your time. No doubt we'll catch up again
soon. Victoria Coates there at the
Heritage Foundation. That's the
situation that most people in this
market ultimately think we will avoid
and certainly want to avoid.
>> And that's the reason why every
extension of some sort of ceasefire
discussion has been rewarded in markets,
even if there isn't a clear sign of when
that can actually begin [music] once
again.
>> Equity futures pulling back from
all-time highs here. We're down by 0.5%.
Tesla in focus. We'll catch up with Ben
Kallo of Baird with Tesla set to triple
full-year spending. Plus your hires got
your morning movers. ServiceNow falling
on slumping sales. That stock is down by
13% from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
All-time highs coming into Thursday,
just pulling back from those levels this
morning [music] from 0.5%
to 0.6% lower across the board here.
Down by 0.5 on the S&P and the Nasdaq.
[music]
Down by 0.52 on the Russell. Down by
0.59 on the Nasdaq. An amazing run we've
seen on the Nasdaq 100 and for tech
stocks as well. For the Philadelphia
semi index, Lisa mentioned that 16-day
record winning run. We're on track for
the biggest [music] monthly gain for
semis in America since the year 2000.
We're up in April, and April ain't over.
We're up in April so far by more than
30%.
>> You need memory, and you need chips in
order to execute the AI hopes and dreams
that have been powering the American
economy and have been powering the
American stock market. So, now the
question is, do you keep buying, or have
things gotten to such a top and have
gotten so extreme that you want to back
off? And right now, people seem to be
saying, Let's keep buying because
ultimately, this is what's going to
power the future.
>> How insulated is that market from this,
Brent? WTI inching higher again. Four
consecutive days of gains for Brent
crude, back to 103, up by 1.4%. Yes,
[music] we've extended the ceasefire,
but yes, we have also extended the
closure of the Strait of Hormuz.
>> The ironic aspect of this is that as oil
prices go [music] higher, the more that
AI stocks become sort of a moat of
safety, and people are going to those.
It's Europe that really is going to feel
the brunt of it, and that's what every
economic projection says. The longer
this goes on, there'll be
disproportionate cannibalization from
the [music] European economy, and you
are seeing that in the equity moves. So,
it's not totally irrational that the
market seems to be shaking it off when
you say that the market is a group of US
and frankly even Asian tech stocks.
>> It's PMI day today, and the PMIs in
Europe not good, not good at all. Let's
finish on the bond market. Two's, 10's,
30's, two's so far this week up around
10 basis points. Data's been decent,
ADP, [music]
retail sales, jobless claims coming up
later. Crude starting to bleed higher
again. Let's take in a two-year to about
38147. [music] Yields up again this
morning by one to two basis points. The
good news though, we are nowhere near
where we were only two months ago, six
weeks ago, when [music] we were testing
4% at the front end of the yield curve.
And I think this market's got
comfortable with the idea that the bar
[music] for rate hikes is still
incredibly high.
>> Yeah, and Kevin Warsh spoke to that to
some degree in the hearings, not
necessarily giving any view on rate
hikes in particular, but talking about a
new Fed regime that could allow you to
cut rates in the face of AI productivity
booms that he expects to see [music]
coming down the pike. A real question
here about the long end, and I think
that increasingly we need to keep
focusing on that. If you reassess
inflation, [music] use a different
metric to understand what inflation is
as a forward leading indicator and cut
rates in the heels of that, does that
lead to an unmooring of the long end
field curve?
>> 10s this morning, 431. [music] 30s at
about 492. As we count you down to the
open in about 3 hours away, let's get
you some single names, some money
movers. Yohai [music]
has more. Hey Yohai.
>> Hi John. Tesla shares initially jumped
after earnings yesterday, but we wake up
to a negative Tesla down 3. Nearly 3.4%
[music]
after announcing that it is boosting
spending to more than $25
>> [music]
>> billion this year surpassing analyst
estimates and roughly triple last year's
level as it ramps up spending on AI and
robotics. Moving on to Lululemon, those
shares also in the red down nearly 4%
after it named a new CEO tapping
long-time Nike executive Heidi O'Neill
to lead this turnaround, but as you can
see the market not fully convinced cuz
she's walking into a tough setup.
Competition is heating up, it's in a
proxy fight, and the shares are down
some 40% [music]
in the past year. And we end on
ServiceNow, those shares plunging more
than 13% in the pre-market after the
company said
company says large deals are being
delayed over the conflict in the Middle
East in a market already nervous around
software in the AI era, that is enough
to send shares sharply lower adding to a
30% drawdown just this [music] year.
John.
>> Yohai, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Yohai in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, the standoff in the
Strait of Hormuz intensifying. The White
House saying it's awaiting a response
from Iran. Tehran saying it won't
restart negotiations until Washington
ends its blockade on Iranian ports.
Elsewhere, IBM trading lower in the
pre-market, the company posting stronger
than expected first quarter results and
maintaining its full year guidance. The
report failing to shake investor fears
about AI disruption. That name is down
by almost 7%. And finally, the NEC
director Kevin Hassett saying Fed chair
Jay Powell can stay on as head of the
central bank until his successor is
named.
>> I think that's the appropriate legal
understanding and um you know, we're all
hoping that um
you know, Kevin is confirmed as soon as
possible and that Jay moves on to a you
know, happy and productive life.
>> So, after May 15th, Powell is standing
in
Trump will be okay with that because he
knows Warsh is hopefully
>> discuss that in the present.
>> I'm not sure if Kevin Hassett meant that
to be a joke or not, but hoping Jay
moves on to a happy and productive life
got my attention, too. I'll park that.
The other piece of this that I think is
interesting, Bramo, is that's now Kevin
Hassett, the NEC director, suggesting
that Jay Powell can stay on if Kevin
Warsh hasn't been confirmed yet. And
we've had the Treasury Secretary Scott
Morrison also opened the door to keeping
interest rates on hold as well for the
time being given the Iranian war without
any additional pressure at least coming
from him.
>> Yeah, to me you put these two things
together and you have the economists in
the room kind of pushing back a little
bit to
a president who's saying I'm going to
put the Fed chair right next to my
office and I want it to cut rates really
aggressively because they know what
would happen to the long end of the
yield curve. I think more importantly
than whether the Fed chair will stay or
not if Kevin Warsh isn't confirmed is a
question of how Kevin Warsh is going to
operate once he comes in. How he is
going to overhaul the Federal Reserve.
How he is going to overhaul the
understanding of inflation given the
fact that he wants it to look at gauges
of underlying inflation instead of the
one-time shocks that seem to keep
percolating into our market. I mean,
these are some of the things that people
are trying to wrap their heads around.
In the face of all of this, markets
completely dead.
>> Inflation is a choice.
>> Yeah.
>> As we talked yesterday, yes, it is a
choice. You just pick your favorite
index right now and Kevin Warsh is is
maybe going in that direction.
>> Exactly. He's saying it's a choice and I
choose this index which shows that
inflation is pretty much close to 2%.
>> that's what he meant initially when he
said inflation was a choice.
>> Well, that's the reason why we all took
that as hawkish. Then the rest of the
market said, "Well, actually he's just
choosing the index and the index is a
lot lower. So, I like that choice. Keep
cutting."
>> The NEC director says you can stay on.
The president says you're going to be
fired if you don't move on.
It's an interesting dynamic right now.
>> It kind of goes to the whole Chris
Wright thing, which is gas prices are
going to remain above $3 probably for
the remainder of the year. And President
Trump says, "I don't agree with that."
So, it's a difficult It's a difficult
sort of
thread a needle to thread give
considering the fact that we have people
who are minority in these markets and we
have a president who is messaging a very
different type of thing.
>> That's the latest on the Federal
Reserve. Elsewhere, Tesla, those shares
trading lower in the pre-market. The EV
maker raising its full year CapEx to $25
billion
as it ramps up its push into AI and
robotics. The announcement overshadowing
strong first quarter results. The stock
down by by a little more than 3%.
Bloomberg's at Bloomberg Intelligence
now for more. And good morning. What
were the big takeaways for you yesterday
afternoon?
>> I mean, for Tesla, $25 billion is a
monster number. A monster number. You
know, CapEx previously peaked at about
$11 billion in 2024.
But the warning right is that because of
their commitment to enter this kind of
multi-year investment cycle to fund the
humanoid robot, to fund the robo-taxi,
the balance of 2026 is going to see them
be in negative free cash flow. And so,
the market's immediate reaction this
morning is they don't like that. You
know, it's been so interesting Elon Musk
framed this CapEx commitment which is up
from the prior guide just last quarter
of 20 billion for the fiscal year as
just being in line with the environment,
right? He said, "Well, everyone else was
doing it. So, you should expect us to do
this." Of course, Tesla isn't doing
CapEx at the level that the hyperscalers
are. But the way you intro'd the
segment, John, is absolutely right
because what's so funny is all of the
people saying don't even bother talking
about the car company bit are kind of
eating their hats. There was a lot of
evidence in the initially when the print
hit that demand is returning. And
actually the CFO, who often gives a lot
more granularity than Musk does, said
high gas prices are driving demand
short-term returning to EVs, which is
really interesting. Um a lot of news was
packed into the call. You know, Elon
dropped a lot of sort of uh quick fire
commentary on on the plan to build chip
manufacturing. That drove the shares of
Intel. But but really this is now Tesla
in spending mode to deliver on the
things that it's tried to keep investors
looking to the horizon on for some time.
>> And thank you, buddy. Appreciate the
update. Ed Ludlow there. Look out for Ed
later on this morning, 11:00 a.m.
Eastern time on Bloomberg Technology.
That stock is slightly lower. I thought
Lisa asked a fantastic question a little
bit earlier on in the program. Is this a
gut check for the Metas, the Microsofts,
the Alphabets that report next week?
>> You can make an argument that Tesla
needs to spend big because their auto
manufacturing side of the business is
not going to reap the kind of multiples
that it currently is trading at. And yet
when they say they're going to spend all
of this money to invest in those hopes
and dreams, people say, "Ah, we're not
buying it. We're going to sell." So if
you get the Microsoft, the Apples, the
Amazons, etc. Apple maybe is another
story, saying that they're going to
engage in much bigger capex programs
than people expected next week, do we
see some of the sheen come off the AI
trade once again?
>> Wednesday is a big day for tech earnings
next week. The same day, by the way,
that we get the Federal Reserve
decision. Let's get the view from the
analyst community. Ben Kallo of Baird
trimming his price target to 522,
keeping an outperform rating, writing,
"In the long term, we view Tesla as a
core holding. In the very short term, we
think the stock is likely linked to the
SpaceX IPO and potential merger rumors."
Ben joins us now for more. Ben, we'll
get to the earnings later. I've got to
pick up on that line. So important. What
is the relationship between the
performance of this stock and what's
about to happen with SpaceX?
>> Well, good morning. Thanks for having me
on. I I think a a couplefold. Uh first,
um the reason we think that, you know,
ultimately the two companies make sense
together, uh there's all obviously
synergies between operations, there's
synergies between costs. Uh there's a
control issue with Musk that would help
his control of Tesla if they did did
merge. But on the call, I found
something very interesting. He said that
when he was talking about the Terafab,
about how difficult it was to get
approval and uh and the lengthy process
of having to go to each individual
boards. I think that's him priming the
market uh for the companies to come
together. And then just going back to
the previous conversation you guys were
having about CapEx versus the other Mag
7 companies and how uh you know, they
really dwarf uh Tesla's CapEx even
though you know, they raised it from 20
to 25 billion. It's double what they did
uh more than double what they did last
year. It dwarfs in comparison and I
think the two companies combined
together can help, you know, get that
scale needed uh to run in this CapEx uh
AI race uh that Elon is uh certainly
part of right now.
>> Ben, does it seem to you like Elon Musk
is sick of running a car company?
>> I I think the uh the car company is a
foundation and an and an important part
of it. The uh the car company, the
energy business, which is very strong
right now because we do need uh
electrons, we need storage, we need
generation. But uh for Tesla, the car
business and the energy business, they
are going to provide that cash flow even
though they're going to burn cash uh
this year and into the really really the
foreseeable future. It does provide cash
uh for that CapEx in that next
generation. The car business also is a
foundation for the robo-taxi business.
It's helped them gather nearly uh 10
billion miles of data out there so that
they can scale and uh you know, it's
interesting to see them scaling uh with
a uh safety driver out into other Texas
cities uh that you know, and I think
that they'll continue to scale faster uh
than uh
uh originally predicted um this year. Uh
although it's taking a long time, I
think that we're at a at a turning point
there.
>> Ben, do you think that ultimately
getting into Tesla now is a cheap option
to get into the SpaceX IPO later? Is
that kind of how you're seeing this play
out as we expect that to come to
fruition later this year?
>> I think that for patient investors it it
is a way to invest in
ultimately what we think is a going to
be a combined company. Even on a
standalone basis, I think in the short
term you have your
flow of funds. Maybe people raising
capital from selling Tesla to buy
SpaceX. That's out there as well. And
then we're kind of in a wait and hold
period to see if they actually do come
together or what
you know the plan is until Elon says no
or go forward. It's kind of in this kind
of lull here. But I think that if you're
a patient investor it's now's the time
to buy.
>> Ben, if you want to get aggressive,
let's pick out one final name. It's
another name that you cover.
Ben, GE Vernova. A gain of 100% last
year and up more than 70% this year, up
big time already this month given the
gains in the last 24 hours. The bar's
high, they keep skipping it. How
promising is business over that company?
>> It's very promising. I think it's a
great bellwether
and a great
stock that is right smack dab in the
middle of all the electrification, the
energy generation. We're short on
electrodes and and you know I agree with
the CEO of GE Vernova that we're in the
super cycle and we at least have a
decade. We're Elon's talking about
sending data centers in the space
because of energy constraints and GEVs
out there, you know, providing gas
turbines
and then generation equipment. You know,
to hook up to the grid. So they're right
down the middle of it and they have a
long runway. They're getting price in
their turbines and I think that we'll
continue to see that
you know our grid is going to be
stressed and we need to invest heavily
into it. We've we're under invested in
it and now we're adding not only you
know new manufacturing but you know big
data centers that are equal to the size
of energy draws of major cities out
there. And so great way to invest in
that that long-term trend that we
haven't seen before.
>> What a rally. What a rally. Ben, thank
you. Ben Kallo there of Baird. We caught
up with him back in January. He sounded
confident then. I think it was good
reason to sound confident based on these
results.
>> When you take a look at first quarter
electrification revenue, it is up 61%
year-over-year from GE Vernova. When you
take a look at power revenue, up 12%. A
real question here about just how they
can keep up with demand and that really
has been the story for all of the energy
providers and the manufacturers of the
equipment needed for it.
>> Quite phenomenal, that's for sure. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Back with us is Vony Quinn. Hey Vony.
>> Hey John, thank you. The Trump
administration nearing a $500 million
bailout of Spirit Airlines. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the deal
would give the government the option to
take ownership of up to 90% of the
carrier once it emerges from bankruptcy.
[music]
United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby
discussing the plan with Lisa.
>> This was a fundamentally flawed business
model that I've been under going back
into the last administration [music]
saying it's a it's going to fail because
the business model doesn't work.
And so I think the spiking fuel prices
[music] just moves forward by a couple
of months.
>> Kirby sidestepped questions about a
potential merger with American but
acknowledged that the current climate
might offer opportunities for deals.
Lululemon has named former Nike
executive Heidi O'Neill as its new chief
executive starting in September. O'Neill
takes over as the athletic apparel
retailer is facing slowing growth and
investor unrest following [music] recent
product mishaps including the sale of
see-through leggings.
Italy could make an appearance in the
upcoming World Cup. The Financial Times
reporting a top envoy to President
Donald Trump asking FIFA to replace Iran
with Italy arguing Italy's [music] four
World Cup titles justify awarding it the
slot.
That is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Bonnie, thank you. Obviously, I
disagree. You've got to earn it on the
field, the pitch.
>> I know. I know. Yeah, no. I think that
it's a No, not at all. I think that you
still would go.
>> Obviously.
>> So, you know, it'd be a better market.
>> I mean, come on. I'm not going to
pretend I'd be disappointed.
>> I know. I
>> But, I do think you've got to earn it.
>> Yeah. [music] You have to earn it in
order to pay for the tickets, frankly,
to get there. So, that's the That's the
truth.
>> You've got to earn it.
Up next, crude under pressure.
This net Brent expiration, if we don't
start seeing that convergence, [music]
then we may be in a position where no
matter what type of news flow happens,
the situation keeps getting worse, and
futures may not respond.
>> Oil back at triple digits. Brent crude
on a four-day winning streak. Paul
Sankey of Sankey [music] Research joins
us next.
>> [music]
>> Equity futures slightly negative, down
by 0.5%. Our next guest is so keen, he
already wants to answer questions we
haven't asked yet. We'll get to them in
just a moment.
>> Calm down, Paul.
>> And [laughter] the Nasdaq We're down by
0.5. And as Evan is this morning, let's
talk about energy. Crude supply under
pressure.
>> This net Brent [music] expiration, if we
don't start seeing that convergence,
then we may be in a position where no
matter what type of news flow happens,
physically on the ground, on the water,
the situation keeps getting worse, and
futures may not respond. [music] The
differential between them was never
contemplated to be this wide.
So, in some sense, it's broken, right?
And it may need to be reconfigured uh
after this.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Crude climbing for a fourth consecutive
day, back over $100 a barrel, with the
US and Iran seemingly deadlocked.
Joining us around the table, Paul Sankey
of Sankey Research. Paul, good to see
you.
>> Hi.
>> Have you met Lisa before?
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> Moving on.
>> I don't remember.
>> Inside joke. Let's go on.
>> Well, Maven, Paul, before this war
started, the day before, Exxon closed at
around 150. Exxon closed yesterday
around 150. Why hasn't this war and this
supply hammering that we've seen in the
last 2 months energized the rally in
energy names?
>> Well, the energy names were running hard
into this, you know, they were the best
performing sector of year-to-date, and
that had, you know, very much reversed.
So, you had tech going down,
oil going up, and I think that was
important because in many ways the
market was
adding terminal value into the oil. So,
what they were doing is they were buying
on the basis that the oil age isn't
ending.
And you know, you had fundamentally more
long-term value in Exxon. Exxon
themselves had come out with their
long-term energy plan in October around
the time BP capitulated, the IEA
capitulated on the end of the oil age.
So, Exxon came out and said, "Actually,
we think global oil demand's going to be
flat through 2050."
So, the market began to think, you know,
actually these And of course, the AI
energy requirement, natural gas
requirement, the market began to buy in
in a very big way to the idea that the
oils are fundamentally worth more
because they have [clears throat] a much
longer
um outlook for their for their products.
And so, that was bullish, but of course,
when you get into this situation, and
this is what we're looking at directly
today, and I'll mention in passing that
there's also been some profit warnings
for Q1 that we saw, which is to do with
inventory values changing massively
because of the the crisis. So, you're
going to have some very big headline
losses reported by the oils in terms of
their working capital in the earning
season that's coming up right now.
But then, what we saw here is that
people are typically unwilling to buy
into the oils at a peak price. And what
we've seen at times is the oil price
will come down, and the oils go up. And
that's big investors wanting to get into
oil, but not wanting to buy when jet
fuel's $200 a barrel, but you can see
the underlying bid is there. Now, of Of
it gets more complicated because then we
have this huge tech rally. You know, so
people were shoving money back into
Nvidia or whatever they were. So, we
didn't get part of that bid either. And
I'll leave it to you geniuses to work
out why tech was so strong. But I think
that the AI theme has remained on
course, and particularly the AI CapEx.
And so, there is an argument that the AI
theme is I mean, all the language in the
companies is it is going to be vast. It
is going to be huge, and people wanted
to buy back in. But I think over the
coming months, this is going to
unfortunately deteriorate badly, this
situation. It already is. But it's it's
nothing to say that it's going to not be
deteriorate anything other than
deteriorating over the next 2 months.
We're locked into that. And so, I think
the the market has, you know, it's been
a great rally, a an all-time rally but
by some measures. But I think this is
going to it's going to come back to us.
And I think John, another one of your
expert areas is the the T you know, what
we're looking at is the T-bill and how
the government finances can really
handle this total disaster. And
it's going to be difficult.
>> Before we get there though, it's easy
for people to say, "Well, prices are
going to remain structurally higher for
the foreseeable future as a result of
this, regardless of whether it gets
resolved or not." Why is that not enough
to give a boost to some of these oil
majors? And why aren't we seeing them
invest in CapEx?
>> Yeah, I I think that's a a good point.
And and I think it becomes a demand
destruction case. So, what happened, you
know, we have an almost opposite of
COVID effect here. But what you saw with
COVID is in 2019, world oil demand hit a
record high. You structurally lowered
it. And you had just fought your way
back over 6 years, 5 years to be at
record highs again, literally in
February 2026. You were at all-time
record highs for global oil demand. And
I think what you'll see out of this
crisis is actually a structural
reduction in oil demand as well as a
structural increase in the oil price.
So, it's I think that's one of the
reasons why
at this energy forum, we were talking
about this this week. Case Van't Hof,
the the really outstanding CEO of
Diamondback, was talking about the fact
that the future strips at $72 for next
year.
And there's nothing he can do with that.
You know, he can't sell into it. He
can't drill more on it. It's really
another interesting aspect of this
crisis, which is the future strip is
disincentivizing
investment in more oil supply in the way
that we need it. And so the companies
aren't changing their capex plans. The
AI guys are Tesla is, but
you won't see any My view, you won't see
any public oil company make a major
change to their capex plan on this Q1
earnings.
>> We've probably got about a minute left.
You seem to think this is going to get
very bad.
And I just want you to spell out why,
because there is a degree of comfort
that people have got that we're on a
de-escalatory path.
>> Well, the comfort comes from the fact
that the tankers only stopped arriving
last week. You know, it's a 40-day
process. And so almost immediately what
we've seen is this this the inventory
numbers have now started to get scary,
and it's just starting. But you're not
at the stage of just outright crisis
pricing, you know, you're not at the
stage where Americans American very slow
share of their income goes to gasoline.
Three, four, you know, it's eight, nine
in Germany. It's not that big a price.
It's a sticker shock, but it's not
really that huge an effect for the
average American. Obviously, it's
regressive and bad for poor people.
So I think that the the situation here
gets worse simply because it's
guaranteed. You know, normally when
we're forecasting oil, we can be very,
very wrong for extraneous reasons. In
this case, we can be sure that the next
2 months is going to be an ongoing
absolute disaster even if you you open
the streets tomorrow, because it's just
locked in by by virtue of tanking.
Tankers. And the tankers are all in the
wrong places. It probably means it's 3
months.
So it's it's a very bad situation, and
we're looking at where the supply chains
are breaking. We focused on Australia,
on jet fuel. People are talking about
solvents in Japan for chip making today.
You know, you'll see where the cracks
really start to appear. And then
finally, there's another issue, which is
emergency inventories. The first slug is
easy to release. The second slug, you're
going to release it, but you're going to
be scared. And then there's a question
of can you really release the third
slug? So So emergency inventories are
probably lower in real actual terms than
they appear on your screen and they
appear very low.
>> And this is quite sobering stuff, Paul
Sankey. Appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. Paul Sankey there of Sankey
Research. Up next, Nate Turf of
Manulife, General Robert Walsh of
Academy Securities, Don Stroeven of
Goldman Sachs, Christina Cammanito of
Invesco.
>> We're definitely seeing strength of the
US consumer accelerating.
>> That growth is coming across the board
in the consumer segment.
>> Consumers are wary, but again, as long
as they're working, I think they can
make it through.
>> We do think you'll see inflation begin
to recede.
>> It's very clear there's a lot of
resilience in the economy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Snapping
a two-day losing streak on the S&P
[music] in yesterday's session, all-time
highs coming into Thursday, pulling back
this morning by 0.4% on the S&P and the
Nasdaq by 0.3. In the commodity market,
four days of gains for crude on Brent
back in triple [music] digits, 103, and
up by 1% this morning, and that screen
is doing some real damage to the airline
industry. We've [music] seen the likes
of United cut their outlook. We've seen
Lufthansa slash flights, 20,000 of them,
going into the summer, and American
numbers from American Airlines just
dropping. [music]
>> Yeah, they said that they essentially
met operating revenue for the first
quarter. It met the average analyst
estimate. When you look through here,
[music] uh you see that available seat
miles are a bit above where it had been
expected. They do have an adjusted loss
per share of 40 cents versus a loss per
share of 59 cents year-over-year. So, a
better than expected, lower than
expected loss. That said, talking about
the year ahead, talking about how
expensive uh gas fuel is going to cost,
jet fuel is going to cost, talking about
how they essentially are going to hold a
lot of their guidance flat. This is what
we're going to be looking through as
some of these earnings come through.
>> going to have some price pressure state
side. They're going to have shortages in
Europe. That's different.
>> [music]
>> And the way these airlines respond
domestically in America and how they
respond internationally in places like
Europe could well be different, too.
>> Well, in Europe they're going to have to
cut a lot of the regional flights and
we've already seen that from Lufthansa.
For the United States carriers, a
question of how do they prioritize
international flights given the fact
that it's going to [music] be
really expensive to refuel on the other
side to come back. How high are the
prices and how much do you see demand
destruction as a result? You see
American, you see United, you see Delta
all prioritizing
>> [music]
>> their premium offerings and this really
is key because this is where they make
their money and how much can they jack
up those prices? $15,000 [music]
flights over to London and still get the
business customer coming through given
the fact that ultimately it may cost
that in order to get to the other side
of the pond.
>> Quite a headline, isn't it? American
Air, more than $4 expense related to
fuel costs. It's quite [music] a number.
>> I mean, this is what you're seeing from
a whole host of different airlines. As
people look through and see how much
[music] their expenses are going to go
up, a question of how much can you keep
passing that along to customers? Again,
that is why they're leading into premium
and that is where the bulk of all of the
profits are coming from.
>> kind of space to the numbers we just got
from American Express.
>> [music]
>> Amex first quarter EPS 428, the estimate
4 0 3. The financials, the likes of
American Express, some of these [music]
names just speak to an economy that's
doing better than okay.
>> Well, that's the reason why everyone has
been reporting better than expected
earnings. That's the reason why even
though American Airlines is reporting a
loss and a $4 expense tied to
jet fuel costs, you're seeing still the
shares up in premarket trading. American
Express talking about premium card
spending staying strong. So, here's what
we're going to have to ask economists.
How much is this just the upper quartile
being able to spend, the war the
wealthier individuals in the K-shaped
economy really expressing itself, and
how much does this really express
underlying strength that has been masked
by what's going on, overshadowed by
what's going on in the Middle East?
>> Equity futures are erasing losses this
morning, negative by 0.4%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Nate Thurst of Manulife Investment
Management after stocks hit fresh
all-time highs. General Robert Walsh of
Academy Securities on the high-stakes
pause in US-Iran talks. And Dan Streuven
of Goldman Sachs as crude climbs back
above $100 a barrel. We begin this hour
with stocks pulling back following a
record-setting session. Nate Thurst of
Manulife Investment Management writing,
"The next few weeks will tell us whether
strength broadens or whether this
remains a narrow, high-quality earning
cycle." Nate joins us now for more.
Nate, welcome back. Last time we caught
up, you played down the risk of a repeat
of 2022.
Can you give us an update on your
thinking now we've played through this
story through the last 6 to 8 weeks?
>> It's great to be back. I agree that that
we are still in a world where I don't
think 2022 repeats itself. We have a
much more resilient economy. We have
companies that have been through supply
chain shocks before, so they're more
prepared. And we have this general
resilience that we're seeing across
corporate America. And given how the US
indexes are skewed towards technology
and financials, it's a world of have and
have-nots within corporate world, just
like it is a world of have and have-nots
in the economy. And so, we still have a
very resilient underlying corporate
America, which is driving risk assets,
especially US equities higher.
>> The earnings from semis and the whole AI
ecosystem have been phenomenal,
incredibly encouraging. Overnight, we
heard from Texas Instruments, strong
forecast from them. We talked about
Geovenover yesterday, again this
morning, making some big, big moves in
their order book. In fact, the quarter
in some measures was better than the
whole of last year. Nate, the haves,
they're the haves. Who are the have-nots
in this equity market?
>> Well, there's a lot of have-nots, but if
you think about the haves first, haves
make up basically 80% of earnings growth
this year. It's about 60% from
technology companies and another 20% is
coming from financials. So, the rest of
the index, all the other sectors are
well under um when it comes to potential
earnings growth. And that includes
everything from consumer names to the
more cyclical names. The one area I
would say that's still a little bit of a
bright spot is part of the industrial
sector and aspects of the healthcare
sector, but everything else is not
growing nearly as well as what we're
seeing in tech and financials.
>> Does that mean it's an opportunity or is
that a warning sign, Nate?
>> I think it's a mixed bag. There are
certainly some opportunities in certain
sectors. We like a number of the
industrials because of some of the
secular tailwinds behind that, whether
it's AI build-out, whether it's
robotics, whether it's capital spending
for the energy cycle, um when it comes
to just more efficiency gains,
infrastructure for power, etc. There's a
lot to like about industrials cuz
there's secular themes that are playing
into it, including AI. And then
healthcare, healthcare is the only
sector in our view that can compete with
technology from a secular growth
perspective. It's unfortunate, though,
there's just a lot of regulatory
overhang and a lot of negative sentiment
um that has impacted healthcare in a
more negative way, and valuations are
showing that cuz it's historically cheap
versus its average.
>> There's real tension right now in
markets, Nate, and I'm watching some of
these earnings come through, whether
it's American or whether it's American
Express. Uh this idea that the US
consumer can keep spending, and they're
willing to absorb higher prices to keep
doing the things that they have enjoyed
doing, which points to the inflationary
backdrop that we might be looking at.
People have been saying that this is
going to be a one-time shock or it's not
going to be long-term structurally
inflationary, at the same time that the
strength in the US economy is raising
real questions about that. How do you
see that playing out through your
portfolio?
>> I think it's an important dynamic. The
reality is we have an environment where
the wealth effect, particularly those on
the higher end of the income spectrum,
are doing very, very well. And as long
as equities continue to do well,
and that wealth is not impacted
materially, you have a broad underlying
driver, particularly for the upper
echelon, to continue to spend and spend
a lot. Unfortunately, on the flip side,
you have a big part of the economy
that's not benefiting that from that.
And they are struggling. And despite the
fact that inflation probably is a bit
transitory, as this is a one-time kind
of shock, it doesn't mean it's going to
go back down. So, these prices are here
to stay. It's just that the fact that
the prices going forward may not go up
as much as they have been going up. And
so, the reality is we still have versus
have not economy when it comes to the
health of the consumer. But the wealth
Do not underestimate the wealth impact
as it pertains to the broader dynamics
that drive consumer indices when it
comes to the strength in the shell.
>> And they, back in '22, we had a very,
very different central bank posture. At
the Federal Reserve, there is a high,
high bar to hike interest rates. What
were your reflections on the hearing we
had with Kevin Walsh, and how close are
we to the next move from that
institution?
>> I think it's hard to read too much into
just the hearing, because the reality is
this is a person trying to get a job.
They're going to tell them He's going to
tell them as much as they want to hear
that's supportive of what he thinks is
the right answer for what the outcome is
for the Fed. The reality is they are
going to still be a very data-dependent
Fed. And this member This new member is
just one voting member, not the only
voting, right? And so, we got to think
about the weight of the evidence. We
think the Fed is very inclined to cut
rates if job data weakens, if growth
weakens. But at the same time, they're
perfectly content sitting on the
sideline and holding pat as long as
there's this lingering concern about
inflation in the background, and the job
data still looks okay, and growth still
looks pretty good. And so, we're in a
wait-and-see mode for the Fed, but
ultimately, we do think the Fed will
still get in at least one, if not two,
cuts by the end of this year.
>> Isn't inflation a choice, and I don't
mean with respect to monetary policy, I
mean with respect to which index you
look at to determine exactly what the
inflation rate should be?
>> It is, clearly, because you have
top-line inflation, and that's being
impacted heavily right now by energy
dynamics. And then, you have broader
inflation trends. And if you look at
broader inflation trends, there's a lot
of downward pressure, particularly when
it comes to housing side of things, and
when it comes to some of the areas that
consumers that just aren't doing as
well, and the spending on those type of
dynamics, particularly household goods
and furniture and things like that. So,
there's a lot of downward pressure on
inflation, just as there's their upward
pressure in other areas like the energy
sector. So, it is a balancing act, and
the construct of those indices do matter
comes to what that data looks like. But
ultimately, we think what wins out is we
do have inflationary trends, at energy,
that are still quite favorable to the
downside.
>> It's nice to get a constructive view. We
appreciate your time. Thank you, sir.
Nate Thoft there, at Manulife Investment
Management, with a constructive view,
given the dire forecast that we had from
Paul Sankey of Sankey Research, about 15
minutes ago.
>> Yeah, especially because he said that
there would be structural demand
destruction as a result of higher energy
costs, meaning that people wouldn't do
certain things as a result. Well, maybe
they wouldn't do certain things in
Europe, but in the US, evidently,
they're doing things just fine.
I just wonder how this filters into
inflation, because if people in the US
are accepting higher prices, and able to
keep spending, especially if they're at
the upper echelons of the earning
spectrum, how does that filter out into
pricing that affects disproportionately
people at the bottom end of the K? I
mean, this is the conundrum that the Fed
might not have the tools to address, but
will be faced with when they're making
very political decisions.
>> the pushback to the 22 repeat. The labor
market isn't as tight. The consumer
price tolerance isn't as high. And for
that reason, you're not going to get
this broad-based inflation story. My
question would be without this war, how
strong would this economy be right now?
The Amex numbers we just saw moments ago
topping forecast. We've seen this
repeatedly across the financials and the
banks. You've voiced this as well. I
think very well played to you over the
last two months two months to keep
asking this question. From Mike Darda
over at Roth, what if instead we've been
having an underlying boom condition that
has been partially suppressed by
geopolitical turmoil and an energy
shock?
>> That is essentially what all of these
earnings are telling us that we were
seeing a boom condition that has been
suppressed. Question now, how much can
that boom condition continue and uh
persist in the back end of this if this
continues for a longer period of time?
And that speaks to what Paul Sankey is
talking about.
>> Equities recovering just a little bit.
We're down by 0.4% on the S&P. We have
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Vani Gupta has more.
Hey, Vani.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The Pentagon
telling Congress it could take 6 months
to completely clear the Strait of Hormuz
by mines placed by Iran. The Washington
Post reporting that a senior Defense
Department official laid out the
timeline during a classified briefing.
SoftBank is seeking a $10 billion margin
loan backed by its shares in Open AI.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
2-year loan will carry an option for
SoftBank to extend the borrowing by an
additional year. The company is taking
on war debt for its push into AI.
White House National Economic Council
Director Kevin Hassett showing support
for Fed Chair J. Powell. Hassett [music]
saying Powell should remain at the helm
of the central bank on a temporary basis
if a successor is not confirmed when
Powell's term expires next month. And
that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey, Vani. Thank you. Always good to
catch up with Vani Gupta. More from Vani
later this hour. Up next on the program,
locked in a leverage [music] standoff.
>> The president has not set a firm
deadline to receive an Iranian proposal.
The president chose to extend the
ceasefire because it's Iran who needs to
get their acts together.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with General
Robert Walsh of Academy Securities live
from New York City this this
Good morning.
Stock sliding softly down by 0.4% on the
S&P 500. Small pullback from all-time
highs on the Nasdaq 100 down by 4/10
[music] of 1%. We've talked a lot about
this run in semis, but what a run it is.
16 days of gains, [music] a record long
daily winning streak for the
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. And
within [music] that, some of the names
putting up the numbers. Texas Instrument
being one of them.
>> Yeah, Texas Instruments came out and
boosted their earnings tremendously and
their outlook as a result of AI-tied
tools. You saw a similar kind of move
from GE Vernova, also completely
rewarded. Now the question is, can you
see that kind of boom from some of the
hyperscalers? Because this is the picks
and shovels side of the story. This is
sort of the energy, the memory chips,
etc. that has been absolutely surging.
Can you see the actual users of it
monetize it? Or are they just fueling
this gain because they're willing to pay
whatever it takes to face off this
existential risk.
>> it strong enough to insulate this market
from this? Screwed up by 1% this
morning. [music] Brent around 103,
four-day winning streak. And that's
coming with a big, big bill
>> [music]
>> for the airlines. American Airlines
seeing over $4 billion boost in expenses
due to fuel prices.
>> Yeah, and cutting their full year of
forecast [music] for profits as a result
of this. This is what we're hearing from
all the major airlines. What they're
leaning into, the premium offerings.
They're talking about retrofitting old
planes, they're talking about adding
some of those business class in extra
legroom types of seats because that is
where the profits are being made. Guess
why? Because it is the upper income
consumer that is fueling this consumer
boom that we're seeing in the United
States, [music] whether it's American
Express, whether it's American Airlines,
or whether it's United.
>> Funded by Amex, I was going to say.
JPMorgan estimates [laughter]
at the same time American Airlines were
posting those numbers. Brent crude this
morning [music] at 103. And as Savannah
said this morning, locked in a leverage
standoff.
>> The president has not set a firm
deadline to receive an Iranian proposal.
The president chose to extend the
ceasefire because it's Iran who needs to
get their acts together. The United
States and President Trump have been
very clear in our demands, in our red
lines, and what we need to see in the
best interest of the American people, in
our country, and our allies from the
very beginning.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Crude extending gains as the power
struggle of the Strait of Hormuz builds,
and the US-Iran peace talks remain at a
standstill. With the latest, Hana Khan
has more. Hey, Hana.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, the
standoffs and the potential talks and
over the Strait of Hormuz appear to only
be worsening because at this point that
the two are linked. Iranian negotiators
have repeatedly said they won't resume
talks until the US lifts its naval
blockade. Thing is, President Trump has
maintained that it's not going anywhere.
And new this morning, the US military
confirming it had intercepted two
Iranian oil supertankers, it says, was
trying to evade the blockade. Now, it is
just the latest in what has been a
series of efforts this week by Iran to
try to test the US's limits, including
the IRGC confirming yesterday that it
had seized two vessels. Now, the White
House press secretary went on there to
say that the US didn't view this as a
violation of the ceasefire since the
vessels weren't American nor Israeli
flagged, but it does just underscore how
dangerous conditions remain for nearly
all shippers. As the Washington Post
reports on this military assessment that
was shared with Congress that estimates
that Iran had laid 20 or more mines in
the Strait of Hormuz, and that it could
take nearly 6 months to clear them. Now,
we should say that a spokesperson for
the Pentagon did tell the post that that
information was uh inaccurate, but it's
adding to fears, of course, about how
long it will take to get a straight a
safe straight. But, John, at least we
can point to one effort at
de-escalation, which is the White House
coming out yesterday saying that the
timeline for the ceasefire extension
does remain indefinite in a bid to give
Iran some more time to come to the
negotiating table with a new proposal.
We can confirm that Pakistan is still
trying to mediate these efforts. Just
yesterday, the country's prime minister
did say that it met with Iran's
ambassador.
>> No sign of a breakthrough just yet.
Tala, thank you. Tala Kechichian with
the latest down in Washington, D.C. To
extend the conversation, General Robert
Walsh of Academy Securities writing,
"This isn't a breakdown. It's a
high-stakes pause with escalation risk
if neither side blinks." General Walsh
joins us now for more. General Walsh,
welcome to the program. My first
question for you, sir, is whether you
believe the US has the leverage to force
the concessions from the Iranians.
>> Hi, good morning, Jonathan. Great to be
with you again today. Um I think right
now, certainly, there's no question
about what's going on in the first phase
of the
the the campaign that's going on with
all the attacks and how far down
Iran's military's been taken. There's no
question at all the US has the leverage.
Obviously, there was a period in there
where it seemed like Iran had taken some
of that leverage back when they closed
the Straits of Hormuz, but I think the
counter step, the chess move that the US
made to blockade the straits and put
both economic and military pressure
on the Iranian government. This to me
was really clear to show that they've
got the leverage, and that's why I think
right now the Trump administration is
willing to sit back and give the
Iranians more time because of the yellow
leverage that they have right now.
>> General, the Iranians have lived under
very powerful sanctions for a long, long
time. In the West, we have first-world
problems. We worry about a flight being
canceled for our summer vacation. Maybe
we have to cut back on certain things.
They've been living a very different
lifestyle for an extended period of time
and I just wanted whether we're
underestimating the pressure point for
the Iranians. How do you reflect on that
idea?
>> I think that's an excellent point
Jonathan that they can take a lot more.
So right now by putting an economic
blockade
and we look at that how long will that
stranglehold take to really have an
effect on a very radical Islamic
government like that we have with that
we're dealing with there.
You could go back to World War II. You
could go back to the Japanese. You could
go back with how we dealt with Nazi
Germany. It took a lot.
You took a lot in the Civil War with
Operation Anaconda to do a stranglehold.
They can take a while. So that's why I
think this is a move to show leverage to
get the Iranians to negotiating table.
And I think there's going to be have to
be some small concessions on the US to
get to some type of off-ramp to get to
the nose negotiations because if it's
just straight the blockade and the
pressure, we don't know exactly how the
Iranian government will act, but they
certainly could sit down and hold back
for a long long time.
>> General, in the meantime on the US side,
there have been a number of high-level
departures from the US military ranks.
The latest being the Secretary of the
Navy, previously the Army Chief of
Staff. How do you view these departures
in light of the larger scheme of things?
Does it seem more like signal or like
noise?
>> I think when it comes to the the troops
out in the field,
the sailors, the Marines, the airmen
that are out there conducting these
operations, this is really noise to
them. They've got a very focused
operational commander and Admiral Brad
Cooper. They're focused on the mission
and having been in these type of
missions before, you're just heads down
focus on what your mission is. That's
all noise back in Washington. They focus
on what their commanders are doing in
theater and they get at the mission. So
that's a lot of
things that that on in Washington that
will not really affect the mission at
all.
>> At the same time, a number of people
have come on the show and said from a
military execution standpoint, it's been
excellent and as far as accomplishing
the goals set out, there's a real
question strategically of how to
accomplish the end result that people
are talking about, which is a Strait of
Hormuz that can allow free travel of
shipments without paying a toll to Iran.
What is the way to get there given the
fact that it seems unlikely that this
that this regime in Iran would give up
one of the only
levers that it has of leverage?
>> Yeah, I I think the key thing here is
it's going to take both diplomatic,
economic, and military pressure on Iran.
It's all of those things. It's the
hammer in the background that the
military can bring and all Iran has to
do is see the the vast amount of
military force that the US has continued
to bring to make it even larger when,
you know, Operation Epic Fury started,
we've got more forces there. So, that
hammer is there
and we you see how far the Iranian
military has been reduced so far. But
now it's going to get to negotiations
cuz to come back to act to your last
point is this regime is willing to sit
down and take pain for a long time. So,
I think it's going to take both the
economic pressure on there. It's going
to take the diplomatic side. It's going
to need to get to the negotiating table
with the Iranians. And and right now the
problem with getting to the negotiating
tables is because of the split between
the politicians and the IRGC, it's hard
to get to a unified position. So, the
Trump administration I think did the
right thing by telling by giving the
Iranians some time to pause, an
indefinite ceasefire to really kind of
get their act together to get a unified
position, to come forward with a term
sheet on what they're looking at to get
the negotiations started. Those
negotiations, once they get started, now
they can have the discussions about
starting to open the Strait of Hormuz
and re- releasing that pressure that's
on the world markets today.
>> General, how comfortable are US partners
in the region with an open-ended
ceasefire?
>> You know, I think I think at this point,
Jonathan, that
they want to see the war end. The
ceasefire has occurred, but they want to
see this end in a good way. So, I think
their positions align very much with
President Trump's. They don't want to
walk away from this and we go on for
this for years and years and years. They
want to end this. So, they're hoping
that the between the military and
economic pressure that is on them, we
can come up with a good solution. So, I
think they're very much aligned. In
fact, I would say and and they're
aligned so much that they want to see
this through in the same way the Trump
administration sees it, that we end this
and we see
Iran is a a viable neighbor in that in
the Middle East and bring them into that
as difficult as that may be seen with
this radical government. That's the end
state we'd like to get to where we don't
see this constant cycle of violence
that's gone on in the Middle East all
caused by Iran over many decades.
>> That would certainly be a major win for
the region and for the world for that
matter. General, always learn something
when I catch up with you. Thank you,
sir. General Robert Walsh there of
Academy Securities on the pressure point
for the Iranians.
And just the idea that this could go on
longer than you think.
>> You asked the key question though, which
is will the regional partners be okay
with that? The goal may be right, but
how do you get there? And that
ultimately is really the detail [music]
that's the sticking point.
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Don Strasburg of Goldman Sachs with
crude back at triple digits. Plus, your
hires back with your morning movers.
[music] American Airlines is rising on
strong first quarter demand, but held
back by a major expense [music]
associated with fuel costs. That
conversation up next.
Equity futures pulling back from
all-time highs with negative 0.5% on the
S&P 500. Similar move on the Nasdaq down
0.4. on the Russell of small caps down
by 0.6. The guide coming from corporate
America pretty decent strong forecast
from Texas Instruments. [music] Strong
numbers from American Express first
quarter EPS 428 the estimate just north
of four bucks a share. We'll get some of
those names in just a moment. Let's get
you some single names some morning
movers. Yohai has more. Hey Yohai.
>> Hi John, we've got in a wave of earnings
this morning and we start with American
Airlines flipping to negative down 4/10
of [music] 1% even after stronger than
expected results with losses narrowing
and demand holding up but the bigger
story and what's weighing on this name
is what comes next when it comes to
fuel. The airline warning that higher
>> [music]
>> oil prices could tack on more than 4
billion dollars in costs this year.
>> [music]
>> Moving on to a name in the positive
American Express up now just slightly
but still in the green. The credit card
company beating expectations as it's
premium card holders keep spending.
Transactions jumping 10% showing some
resilience at the top end [music] of the
consumer no surprise because of what we
hear on this program all the time about
[music] the K-shaped economy. And we end
on Tesla shares are falling 3% [music]
in the pre-market after announcing it is
boosting spending to 25 billion dollars
this year surpassing analyst estimates
of about 20 billion and about triple
last year's level. John.
>> Yohai thank you. More from Yohai later
in the program. On our radar this
morning. Crude rising as peace talks in
the Middle East remain on pause. Iran
saying it would not resume negotiations
until the US naval blockade is lifted.
President Donald Trump demanding Tehran
hand over its stockpile of enriched
uranium. Elsewhere Lululemon naming
former Nike executive Heidi O'Neill as
its new CEO starting in September.
O'Neill facing the immediate challenge
of easing investor concerns and
regaining market share in the very
competitive athleisure category. And
finally American Airlines and Alaska Air
are discussing a major revenue sharing
partnership. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the deal would include adding
Alaska into Americans global network in
an effort to better challenge rivals.
>> This comes after we get the American
Airlines results for the first quarter
cutting full year earnings forecast as a
result of higher fuel prices. How much
do we see an acceleration of mergers and
acquisitions in the airline industry as
a result of higher fuel prices? It also
comes as American Airlines tries to
rebut United in a very personal type of
squabble between these two airlines with
United looking or reportedly vying to
buy you American Airlines. American
Airlines saying we're absolutely fine
ruling out some sort of acquisition or
merger with Alaskan Air but still coming
up with different ways to fortify their
earning stream.
>> tracking people's body language in an
interview when I'm watching them and
when I'm conducting them at the same
time. And when I was watching when I was
watching you interview Scott Kirby and
you asked him about this there's this
very interesting moment where he just
looks off camera smiling almost looking
at his team as you ask him that
uncomfortable question about going after
American Airlines.
>> He didn't answer the question. He can't
answer the question. I'm sure his legal
would have a coronary. The question
though ultimately is what would be the
goal for United should they want to buy
an airline. They talked about
international presence because that's
where the money is. They want an
international type of footprint and they
they consider their rivals the
international airlines that have a
disproportionate number of flights
of US customers to Europe and back. So
they want to get that share back. This
is the pitch I'm sure that they're
making to the antitrust regulators
saying ultimately we need a strong US
airline and our competitors are
international not necessarily the big
three. American is saying look we're
fine. Look we even have a revenue
sharing deal with Alaska Airline. Either
way the pressure of high oil prices very
much prompting an acceleration of some
of the M&A that we otherwise might have
seen down the line.
>> So what did you sense that he really
wanted it? Some gates, some access to
say JFK to do that through some kind of
merger, some kind of acquisition. What
do you think he wants?
>> You know, he didn't say. He said that
ultimately he's more interested in
international. He kept repeating that.
So, it seems like it's perhaps a little
bit more than a couple of gates. There
also is a feeling that the international
scheme has really changed, especially in
light of how high oil prices have gotten
and frankly the fact that a greater
proportion of the dollars are coming
from the premium customer. So, if you
want to make revenues in a consistent
way, you are going to have to really get
a bigger part of that share going
internationally. And how do you do that?
Well, it isn't small. That I think is
the key point.
>> a great exchange, a very cool exchange.
Check it out on bloomberg.com and the
Bloomberg terminal. Lisa Abramowicz,
Scott Kirby of United. Let's talk about
energy. Brent crude high for a fourth
consecutive day as the US and Iran angle
for control of the Strait of Hormuz. Don
Straszheim of Goldman Sachs writing
global visible oil inventories are
likely to reach record low levels even
in an optimistic scenario where flows
start to recover by the end of April.
Don joins us now for more. Don, good
morning.
>> Morning. Thanks for having me.
>> You can see how things are set up.
You've got a visibility of the tankers
that have arrived and the ones that
aren't coming anymore. Can you describe
what the next 2 months is going to look
like?
>> Yes, [snorts] so global visible oil
inventories, I would say fortunately for
the world we're at pretty high levels
before the war started. But the pace of
global inventory drawdowns is just so
sharp, around 11 million barrels per day
or so, that
because of the
the bottlenecks and and and the logistic
you know, supply chain time it will take
for the system to reset that even if we
start recovering flows by the end of
April, we're on track to reach the
lowest level for global visible oil
inventories,
you know, even if flows start to recover
by the end of the month. And and we
honestly we just have never seen how oil
prices react at such low low levels. So,
we we have to recognize that that
implies some some upside risks to our to
our forecast which which are based on
historical data.
>> Does that aggressive drawdown in
inventories explain why something like
say dated Brent is some $40 off the
highs?
>> Uh yes. So, the the dated Brent is
still, you know, $10 $15 higher than the
June futures contract. The main reason
is there's a big premium on getting oil
sooner rather than later. The June Brent
futures contract gives you the right to
get oil in June. Dated Brent gives you
the right to get a cargo in the next 10
to 30 30 days. Um and because some
market participants assume a high
probability that by June
things will have normalized, you have
this big immediacy premium on barrels
now rather than later.
>> You know, we were talking to Paul Sankey
earlier and making the point that
whatever happens, whenever this gets
resolved, it seems like there's going to
be a structurally higher level of oil
prices going forward and commodity
prices going forward. Why wouldn't the
oil majors in the US be investing
significantly more to produce more? And
he said because the longer this goes on,
the more there is structural demand
destruction for oil. Do you agree with
that?
>> Yes.
If the supply disruption is is very
sustained,
I would downgrade or constructive
long-term oil demand estimates.
The best illustration I think is what
happened in the '80s.
After very high oil prices in in the
'70s, you saw a very sharp drop in oil
demand per per dollar of global GDP
produced. Now, if the disruption is
relatively short-lived, and I think
that's still the market's central
expectation, I would expect somewhat
more limited effect, especially in the
short term because, for instance,
households don't buy a car every year.
In the short term, you don't have that
many switching opportunities. Lower GDP
tends to be the the bigger adjustment
mechanism from
from very high refined refined product
prices.
>> What replaces it? I mean, is it just
sort of lowered GDP on a a period of
time? Or are we going to see other
sources of energy that start to pick up?
I mean, is that sort of a an investing
theme that you're looking for right now?
>> Yes, we do think so. We think this is
actually a, you know,
a period that is pretty supportive for
the global energy capex outlook, both
because within traditional oil and gas,
we'll need to invest into
diversification, because we've learned
that the risks from reduced supply from
the Middle East is high. And it's also
an incentive to diversify into other
other energy sources. And we are already
seeing switching
into you know, renewables, into into
coal, because you can produce coal at
home in in Asian Asian countries. And I
think we're also seeing a pick up in in
EV sales.
So, I think the shock really supports
the need to invest in all of those
above, in all the energy energy sources.
>> Have you been surprised, and this is
probably not the question you expected,
but surprised that crude's not higher?
You've been surprised by how low crude
actually is. And I mentioned dated
Brent. Dated Brent is 111. At the start
of April, that was approaching 150.
That's come down. Maybe inventories
explain that. You and I talked about
that briefly. But the idea that Brent
now is at 102. Yeah, 102 when back in 08
it was trading close to 150. And what's
the 150 equivalent in today's money?
Something north of 200?
>> So, I I think there are three factors.
One, product prices
are still very high. They've also
moderated, but ultimately what matters
for demand, for real income inflation
growth, is product prices.
Two,
since the hostilities ended, I think the
market, especially equity market, has
sharply downgraded its probability of a
very lengthy disruption and of scarring
to all production potential. So, that
has taken out the the tail of the the
price distribution. And then third,
I think many market participants in the
physical world, including for instance
oil consumers, also think now that it's
plausible, likely that the war will be
over in a few months and so they're
actually destocking.
If you expect that it's likely that you
can buy at a lower price 6 weeks from
now after panic buying massive
restocking in March,
you hold back and you hope that prices
come down. Of course, that's not
sustainable if the flows don't recover.
>> So, there's not any funky business going
on in the futures market as far as
you're concerned?
>> I
We don't think so. I think the cleanest
evidence is sort of the price of a
so-called exchanges futures for physical
EFP which essentially allows you to
convert a physical futures contract into
a physical cargo and that price never
exceeded $2 per barrel. So, the physical
markets and the futures markets
you know, are not as disaligned as as
some you know, people believe.
>> How much is this because the Chinese
strategic reserve of oil dwarfs
everything else added together. I was
just looking at a tweet highlighted by
Javier Blas
looking at how the strategic petroleum
reserve in China is equal to that in the
United States, Japan, Europe, and Saudi
Arabia all added together. I mean, how
much is that buffering a lot of what
we're seeing right now in oil prices?
>> Yes, it's a very big buffer. It's a key
reason why we think China has time.
We think that inventory levels in China
would would not reach critical levels
until until the summer.
For now, based on the data we can track,
we have not seen large declines yet
large releases in China's
SPR SPR reserves, but because the market
knows China could do it is this arguably
dampens some of the upside to prices.
>> You keep saying that it's if it's a
temporary shock. Initially a temporary
shock was a couple of weeks. Then it was
a couple of months. Then it was well, as
long as it's resolved before June. Now
it might take 6 months to get rid of the
mines that are currently in the Strait
of Hormuz according to intelligence from
the United States that were as reported
by the Washington Post. I mean, how do
you put this together and get a sense of
what temporary means, what prolonged
means?
>> Yeah, the longer this lasts and if this
lasts more than a quarter,
the main
adjustment mechanism becomes lower
demand and lower economic activity.
For a two to three month period, you can
draw down inventories at a very rapid
pace, in part because the starting point
for inventories was quite high.
But this is not not sustainable. And so,
yeah, it's if this continues, demand
losses are unfortunately the the main
adjustment mechanism.
>> I said this a few times, really enjoyed
your research throughout this whole
process. So, thank you for that to you
and the team. Thank you, sir. Danske
Bank from there of Goldman Sachs on the
energy market. Let's give you an update
on stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Bonnie Quinn has more. Hey,
Bonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. High-profile
shakeup at the Pentagon. Navy Secretary
John Faelan fired after a clashes with
top leaders. According to a Pentagon
spokesman, Under Secretary Hong Cao will
replace Faelan, who is stepping down
effective immediately.
In markets, check on shares of American
Airlines, down about 7/10 of a percent
in the pre-market. American beating
expectations for first quarter earnings,
seeing robust demand in the first
quarter.
>> [music]
>> The company expecting the midpoint of
its full year guidance to be
approximately flat versus last year,
despite more than a $4 billion cost
extra [music] tied to higher jet fuel
prices.
American Express in early trading up
about 2/10 of a percent now. Amex
topping estimates [music] thanks to
strong spending from its premium credit
card. Billed business jumped by 10% from
a year earlier. The company maintaining
its full year guidance, expecting
revenue to rise 9 to 10%. [music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey, Bonnie. Thank you. Appreciate it.
Thank you very much. Up next on the
program, maintaining dollar dominance.
>> Many of our Gulf allies have requested
swap lines, and swap lines are to
maintain order be in the dollar funding
markets and to prevent the sale of the
US assets in a disorderly way.
>> Up next, we catch up with Kristina
Hooper Manny of Invesco [music] from New
York City. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Stocks are recovering. We're down by
just a third of 1% on the S&P likewise
on the NASDAQ small [music] pullback
from all-time highs. So far so good on
the earnings front from American Express
from the likes of Texas Instruments next
Wednesday. Just a frame next Wednesday
for you. You're going to have a Federal
Reserve decision in the afternoon and
after the close Meta, Microsoft,
Alphabet and maybe Amazon too. I haven't
seen that confirmed just yet but a big
number of [music] major tech firms
reporting that afternoon.
>> Key points going to be watch what is
their capital expenditure plan for the
upcoming year for 2027. [music]
Do they give any guidance for that? Do
we get the same response that we got
from Tesla? Tesla increased its CapEx to
[music] $25 billion from $20 billion and
the stock fell after beating
expectations on the earnings from their
car sales. So a question here for
[music] the big
hyperscalers are they seeing a warning
sign from what we just saw from Tesla?
>> them to triple their CapEx are we next
week?
>> You know, you never know. They've done
it before. They can do it [music] again.
>> So latest on Tesla the latest on the
equity market. Here's the latest on
crude higher for a fourth consecutive
day on Brent 102.40 up by 0.5% [music]
and this morning we're going to talk
about foreign exchange maintaining
dollar dominance.
>> Many of our Gulf allies have requested
swap lines and swap lines are to
maintain order the in the dollar funding
markets [music]
and to prevent the sale of the US assets
in a disorderly way. So, [music]
uh the swap line would both benefit the
UAE the and uh the US and as I said
numerous other countries including some
of our Asian allies have also requested
them.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump confirming the US
is considering a currency swap with the
UAE as nations hit hard by the war look
for liquidity. Kristina Hooper of
Invesco making the bear case for the
dollar writing our structural thesis for
a weaker dollar over the medium term to
long term is only amplified by recent
developments. Kristina joins us now for
more. Kristina, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me.
>> What is it about recent developments
that will contribute to a weaker dollar?
>> Look, I think that we this has been our
structural base case for a while and you
started to see the beginning of the
thesis play out in 2025 and they're
obviously dollar trends are long trends,
but when we take a step back, I think in
the last year and a half we have
continued to chip away at the
institutional credibility of the US and
the Fed and kind of questioning of these
things. You've had changes in kind of
the norm of world order for the last
number of years of
of um
economic interdependence, but also
security and I think all of those things
kind of continue to build a backdrop for
a weaker dollar.
>> The counter to the point as you know
will be that this is a relative trade.
It's going to be against something and
the something right now is not great
either. I saw German GDP forecast at
just 0.5%. The growth differentials
matter when you start to think about
these things.
>> So, I think that they do, but again you
take a step back and you say broadly the
dollar still looks overvalued. I think
if you look at 2025 euros moved a lot,
EM currencies performed, but again on a
long structural basis have
underperformed. Asia is the clearest um
kind of region that didn't participate
and I think coming into the year that
was like the cleanest case. That is
obviously challenged by the Iran
conflicts because these are all oil
dependent or importing countries. So,
the mix still matters, but um
I think there are still opportunities in
Asia. I think there has been a pullback
of attention and money into EM and carry
there for sure. And Europe, I mean, I
would just take the step back that
the data is not great. You obviously how
long this conflict goes on will
will matter for sure. And what you said
about the US, we we are energy
independent. We're talking about like
are we changing flights in the summer?
Are we changing vacation plans? Versus
are things actually being canceled?
There is no oil to to have things
operating in Europe. That is 100% true.
But I think we structurally have a bias
in the market that people are much more
negative on Europe than is warranted.
>> Well, at the same time, some people are
saying if you're so negative on Europe,
why don't you invest in long-term bonds
there? Because ultimately, the ECB is
going to have to cut rates based on the
GDP prints that some of these countries
are putting out. Is that something that
you would endorse?
>> So, look, I I I think we talked about
this a bit last time. I think across
rate markets, the front end of markets
is still what is most interesting. And I
think part of the step back from that is
in the last 2 months, the reaction to
all of this and the inflation shock has
just really been a repricing of the
front end in a dramatic way. Um
the ECB obviously has a different
mandate than many of the other global
central banks and seems most um willing
to react and to hike into it. We think
that's a mistake and that ultimately the
growth issues there don't really warrant
hikes.
Um but I think you need a steepening of
the curve and a bit more premium. We're
starting to see that a bit. So, I think
we will get to a point that out the
curve there's some value. I think in the
UK, that's like the one market that
there is some steepness in the curve and
there's value out the curve.
>> At the same time, you just have to
wonder at what point uh dollar weakness
and the trends that underpin it will
cause a reduction in demand for US
assets, in particular US debt. And we're
talking about potentially the Middle
East, which just you know, months ago
was talking about investing billions of
dollars in the US, getting a potential
swap line from the United States to help
with liquidity matters. I mean, isn't
there a fear that there will be a
pullback? Are there any signs of that
actually happening?
>> So, I think there's definitely a fear,
and I think that these comments and that
the information that we got from Bessen
and Trump confirming that speaks to that
of Look, we know that we know that
there's been stop of business and the
normal business of as usual certainly in
the Middle East, but more broadly. And
these all of these nations are tied to
the dollar. Their currencies are tied to
the dollar. So, rather than
I think the effort is in a liquidity
effort to make sure that kind of there's
normal operations rather than having to
go sell US assets. But, I think when we
come back to the early 20 25 themes of
do you have this broad dump of US
assets? I don't think it's that, but
when you say
investors globally are very overweight
US assets. So, on the margin is there
still a willingness to pull put the next
marginal dollar of investments into home
country or home region or diversified
more globally? I think that's absolutely
still a theme that's with us.
>> A lot of selling and less buying are two
different things.
I think we're in the less buying part of
the story. And that's kind of been where
we're at since the start of the year,
Bramo.
>> Yeah, what I find fascinating is that
ultimately a swap line might be an
effort to not have more selling. It
might just be, you know, okay, if you
want to buy less, that's fine, but not
have it be a massive move in the
immediate near term. And that I think is
notable thing.
>> Are those conditions supportive enough
for corporate credit?
>> I think corporate credit is like where
we are kind of the least comfortable in
the market. And obviously
it just spreads are still so tight. Like
we are at extremely tight valuations,
and the we obviously have a K-shaped
recover or like economy in the US, and
the wealthy are underpinning growth and
that kind of continues to be what we see
with earnings so far. But that can only
go so far and we are just we are eight
weeks in or seven weeks into this
conflict. The repercussions and growth
impacts in the US and globally are still
playing through and will hit the
consumer, right? And or and or will hit
the corporation. And if you start to see
layoffs, the labor market isn't this
very tentative place. So there's like a
lot of things that are very finely
balanced and kind of any shocks to that,
you can see trickle down.
>> Is it energy within the high yield
sector that is keeping those spreads
tight? Is something else happening? Is
there a sector you're worried about?
>> Um again, I think the market as a as a
rates person, we always struggle with
this concept that that credit people
talk about about like all-in yields.
Like all-in yields when spreads are so
tight, like go buy T-bills. But like
that is certainly I think a concept that
does reign in the market. And I think
after so many years post-GFC of such low
absolute kind of coupon yields that you
were getting in credit, there was a
there's been a period that just the
level of yield attracted people. I think
that we're a little bit more cautious of
just how does that play out?
>> Christina, good to see you. Appreciate
the caution. Thank you. Christina
Campmany of Invesco. We've had lots of
constructive views on this program. Just
to balance things out, another caution.
I have to tell you though, as we're
having this conversation, of course this
one, the equity market is erasing losses
this morning. We're down by not even two
tenths of 1% on the S&P.
>> It's the push-pull that we had kicked
off the show with. On one hand, you've
got what's going on in the Middle East
and on the other hand, you've got
earnings and corporate America saying
things are amazing and they might look a
little bit worse, but they would have
been absolutely blockbuster and that is
really the read-through getting to the
market.
>> That's the story, isn't it? You've said
this a few times. Would have been
absolutely blockbuster. There's almost
an underlying boom and you saw that in
the airlines. Before this war started,
the demand numbers they were talking
about, United and Delta, stellar.
>> Yeah, the one big beautiful bill
actually did deliver those refunds that
allowed people to go out and spend. It
is the upper end consumer though.
American Express premium, American
Airlines premium customer, United
Airlines premium customer. It keeps
going back to that [music] trend.
>> Up next, the premium guest there at
Cantor Fitzgerald Harris Karrass of
Wolfe Research, Neda Richardson of ADP,
Nisha Batra of Parametric. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance just
around the corner.
>> [music]
>> Markets remain relatively buoyant and
hopeful.
>> That bounce back that you have is
warranted. [music]
>> We're clearly pricing out a lot of the
terrorism. The stock market has been the
most accurate indicator of where the
economy is going. I think you're looking
6 months out. [music] I still think
we're higher than where we are here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
>> Live from New York [music] City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning from
our audience worldwide. The third hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now. And your scores, the price action
looks like this. Coming into Thursday at
all-time highs, a small pull back
[music] of just 0.16%
on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, down by
0.17 supported by a major tech boom
across several companies and the premium
[music]
consumer in the United States of
America.
>> That to me is the key point. It's not
just AI. It's the fact that consumer
spending among well-heeled Americans
seems to be holding up and then some.
American Express profit rising, premium
customers piling in. They can spend. And
what are they spending on? They're
spending on flights. That's one of the
things they're spending on. Because
you're seeing that also from American
Airlines and United and Delta all
talking about the premium customer.
[music]
The path forward is the question. How
much does the war in Iran really crimp
that versus just simply put a damper on
what otherwise would have been a
blockbuster [music] year.
>> Equities are erasing losses as crude
erases gains. We're pulling back from
session highs on Brent crude, Brent at
102, WTI at 93, and those numbers
[music] still bringing a major bill to
the likes of American Airlines, a major
fuel bill.
>> Yeah, $4 billion, which is a part of the
reason why they [music] ratcheted back
their full year earnings forecast, but
you've seen the same kind of move from
United. Delta is simply unwilling to
restate their earnings forecast because
there just is no visibility. At what
point does that really create a serious
problem? And are we actually gaming out
costs that are relevant to what are the
forecasts are from the geopolitical
strategists? I mean, I'm trying to wrap
my head around this. If it takes 6
months to detonate the mines that
potentially were buried in the Strait of
Hormuz,
we're talking about maybe a ceasefire,
but with whom and how?
And we're talking about the fact that
we're still not seeing commerce through
through the Strait of Hormuz. How does
this get resolved in a way that will
beyond the rate some of these [music]
price pressures in the near term? And I
think that is one of the reasons why oil
strategists come on and say, "Hmm, we
don't really get this move." And we keep
saying, "Well, the stocks keep ripping,
so you know, it is what it is."
>> So, it's season tradeoffs, [music] and
you're starting to see them being made
not just in Asia. That was up front, now
in Europe. And keep going back to
Lufthansa, canceling 20,000 flights.
There are some unprofitable trips that
I'm sure they wanted to cancel up front,
and they're trying to maintain some of
the more profitable trips. I just wonder
how close we are to the transit lines
the players making similar decisions
about how much emphasis they want to put
on certain [music] routes versus others.
>> Yeah, are we going to start to see maybe
a flight to say, you know, Toronto
versus a flight to New York, which they
would want to go if you're going from
London. Look, right now they want to
preserve the transatlantic corridor
because that is the most profitable, and
right now they're willing to cut the
shorter end of the flights in order to
say, "Okay, just take a train."
>> We've got some data a little bit later.
It's about 27 minutes away. Jobless
claims in America. The data so far this
week so good. Looking at retail sales,
stronger than expected. ADP numbers,
better than [music] expected. There is
more than just resilience in this
economy. This economy based on the
numbers we've seen so far is more than
just resilient.
>> There's been heat and I keep going back
to the idea that Scott Kirby of United
[music] was surprised by how much there
was not demand destruction as a result
of prices going up. It gives you a sense
of just how much heat there is in this
underlying economy.
>> Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Eric Cantor of Melius & Company. With
stocks pulling back from all-time highs,
Chris Castle of Wolfe Research on the
record-breaking run for chips. And Nela
Richardson of ADP breaking down the
latest jobs data. We'll begin this hour
with stocks lower and crude rising as
peace talks in the Middle East remain
idle. Eric Cantor of Melius & Company
writing energy independence and domestic
production are key to insulating the US
from global shocks. Eric joins us now
for more. Eric, good morning. It's good
to see you.
>> Charles, it's great to be here.
>> In the present, it's tough. In the
future, things are looking better
according to financial markets. What's
going to shake this market out such a
powerful forward-looking mindset?
>> You know, look, if if if you think about
where we are and I know the discussion
around the table this morning has been
the incredible resilience of the
American economy. And I think that if
you if you look at it, a lot of it has
to do with some shock absorbers that
frankly the Trump administration in
Washington has been put put into place.
You've just experienced big tax refunds
uh that came out of the one big
beautiful bill. You now have a shock
absorber, if you will, that is going to
be afforded to the corporate community
in the terms of a $160 billion tariff uh
refund. You've got um actions on the
part of this president who said, "Hey,
we're going to go and ease this oil
crunch by releasing more of the
strategic
petroleum reserves, the waivers on the
Russian oil." And ultimately, you've got
a very pro-business administration in
Washington. So, you've got a regulatory
construct that is much more constructive
than we've had in the past. So, I think
all that helps when you see these
earnings. Helps explain where we are.
>> think we're underestimating the momentum
going into this war?
>> I well I I do think so and I think that
there's not been a lot of credit given
to this construct, the uh the uh policy
construct we've operated in. Certainly
the liquidity that's out there with a
high-end consumer has has uh not abated
yet, but I you look, I don't think we've
necessarily gotten to peak shortage yet.
Uh and just as your guests have been
discussing on the show this morning, I
do think that we've got real uncertainty
as to where and how you're going to see
these oil flows resume so that you can
get back to normal.
>> Blackstone just came out with earnings
and they said this is going to be the
year of the IPO. They still think it's
going to be an unprecedented year for
IPOs. We've heard that from a number of
companies that mergers and acquisitions
going incredibly strong. When you talk
to companies, given the uncertainty out
there that you just reflected, how much
are people willing to carry through with
some of these plans
given that things could change a lot in
the next couple of months?
>> I I I I think, you know,
the market's clearly looking through the
short-term
uh uncertainty in the Gulf. I mean,
there's no question about that and it's
it's it's undergirded by the earnings.
But, you know, if if you look at the
forces that have been at work and I
talked about some of the policy forces,
but if you see in the commercial world
and where companies are with this
technological revolution that we're
experiencing, with the AI boom, you
know, companies are thinking, "How am I
going to position myself?" Boards and
management are saying, "Hey, what do we
have to do to take advantage of this?"
And you've got that tailwind
uh that that continues to push forward
in terms of people saying, "Hey, maybe
we should transact. Maybe we should
accomplish more scale in order to take
advantage of this situation." And then
obviously in the world of private
equity, you constantly have this need of
recycling capital. You constantly have a
need for return of liquidity to the LPs.
That hasn't gone away either. So, in
many ways the structural pillars that
have supported the environment to
transact have not gone away either.
>> So, you don't think that what we're
seeing right now in the Middle East is
going to deter the pace and and frankly
the pipeline that people are talking
about which is unprecedented heading
into this year.
>> Well, I mean look, there's no question
that there're going to be specific
areas. I mean, individuals, entities in
the Middle East are certainly not in the
same
you know, state of mind as they were
eight weeks ago. So, there are going to
be geographies and there're going to be
certain areas. I mean, with the AI
situation and private credit and
software, certainly that's going to have
an impact right now. But that I think is
a short-term sort of thought that
longer-term you've got these structural
tailwinds that are continued to propel
people's willingness to say, "Hey, we
want to do something. Things are moving
too rapidly."
>> So many people in this industry are
incentivized to keep on dancing. We
could see three of the biggest IPOs
we've ever seen in the history of this
country. OpenAI, Anthropic, SpaceX all
in the next 9 months.
>> And it potentially could change the
dynamic that we've seen in terms of
assets in the US where people were
talking about a scarcity of stocks and
the buybacks that have been going on for
so long and suddenly we're going to see
the biggest expansion of US equities,
public equities that we've seen in many,
many years. So, there are a lot of
structural questions that are facing
this market later this year.
>> Eric, we struggled with reality versus
hype.
I'd like your view on that. When I say
everyone's incentivized to keep on
dancing, there's a little bit of snark
in that as well.
I think everyone's incentivized to say
things are maybe better than they are at
the same time because everyone's got to
make some money later this year,
particularly off those three big IPOs
potentially. What is real and what is
hype right now?
>> what is real is we are we have sort of
an era of revolution right now. You you
think about sort of the the geopolitical
revolution, the trade revolution that's
come into play with
uh this this present. You think about
the technological revolution that that
we are experiencing. All these forces
are coming to bear that really is the
reality. People are trying to understand
how to best position themselves, their
capital, their companies to take on
these new times. And I think that is
reality. And there is incentive for sure
to try and
benefit from a lot of it a lot of the
changes.
>> You call them forces. Other people might
call it friction. And with that
increased friction comes increased
costs. What's your reaction to that?
>> Well, I mean, I do think it's increased
costs if you do it the old way. If
you're going to go in and try and
embrace the new way, that's where
everyone's trying to get to. And that's
exactly the point. That's the dynamic,
whether you call it friction or where
you whether you call it, you know, a
tailwind or a force, that is the
mechanism that is saying to people,
"Hey, we need to stand up, look at where
the opportunities are, otherwise we're
going to be left behind."
>> Which is why there is such an aggressive
forward-looking mindset in this market
right now. We spoke to Jim Zelter of
Apollo in the last month, several weeks
ago. He sat in your chair and he said,
"We all need to take a walk because in 6
months' time we won't even be talking
about the crisis in the Middle East.
We'll be talking about how wide open
financial markets are, how much deal
making will be get getting done." I
can't remember the full list from Jim,
but it went something like that. Do you
agree with that?
>> I 100% agree with that. And again, I do
think you've got a regulatory construct,
you've got the SEC, you've got the FTC,
the DOJ, you've got all these, you know,
uh regulators in Washington that are
primed to want to help the growth in
this economy.
>> Do you think that in this environment
it's appropriate for the government to
take a stake in, say, a struggling
airline maker, like uh airline operator
like Spirit, given the fact that most
people are saying this is a short-term
issue that you can look through?
>> Well, look, there's a difference between
um what this administration has has uh
implemented as policy on critical
sectors. You know, critical sectors,
whether they be
um those that are central to the
discussions with China, how do we go
make our supply chain secure? How do we
make sure we have a biopharma supply
chain here so the next time we've got a
shortage or pandemic, we're not relying
on China
uh for inputs for our drugs. I mean, I
do think that there is almost a
bipartisan recognition that, "Hey, we
got to do that." I'm not so sure that
there is a bipartisan recognition that,
"Hey, we've got to step in and help
whatever domestic industry there is."
And you know, we'll have to see whether
these discussions come to fruition and
what the reasoning um what the reasoning
is behind
>> Harry, what happened to the Republican
Party?
Come on.
>> Well, listen, um right now, Jonathan,
it's not a good topic with me because I
just experienced in my state of Virginia
a very, very narrow loss in in uh a very
extreme partisan gerrymandering that the
other side put into place. And I do
think people
um are going to have a a reaction, and
there will be a backlash to some of the
extremity that's going on.
>> You think that will show up in the
midterms?
>> Well, I hope so because there was no
question where the intensity was on the
part of the two sides in Virginia on
Tuesday. They were on my side because of
the extremity and the just insane Yeah,
there's no other word for it.
>> parties guilty of that? Why was this
different in Virginia?
>> Well, this one in Virginia, you had to
if you have to get granular and
specific, but it was 36 changes to the
law. There was a waiver of the
Constitution just four or five years so
that they could go against Trump and and
respond to his alleged move. I mean,
these things most people are not living
that partisan lens, and I do think
ultimately people are going to be
worried about how they get ahead in
their life. And I think this discussion
about prices and gas pump prices, that's
what is going to ultimately determine
all of this as well as the outcome of
the midterms, is are we going to get
these prices at the pump down?
>> Eric, it's good to see you. It's good to
catch up. Thank you, sir, as always.
Eric Cantor there of Moelis and Company
with an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief. Vanya
is back with more. Hey, Vanya.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The US military
intercepting two Iranian oil
supertankers that were attempting to
evade its blockade. US Central Command
saying the tankers are now anchored at
an Iranian port in the Gulf of Oman.
CENTCOM saying the US has directed 29
vessels to turn around or return to
[music] port since the blockade began.
Italy could make an appearance in the
upcoming World Cup. The Financial Times
reporting a top envoy to President
Donald Trump asking FIFA to replace Iran
with Italy, arguing Italy's four World
Cup titles justify awarding it the slot.
The Senate taking the first step
reopening the Department of Homeland
Security. Republicans approving a $70
billion
budget plan to fund ICE and Border
Patrol through a process that requires
no Democratic votes. The bill now heads
to the house.
That is your Bloomberg Brief, John.
>> Hey, Vanya. Thank you. More from Vanya
in 30 minutes. Up next the Morning
Call's Plus, Chris Caso of Wolfe
Research on the record-breaking [music]
run for chip stocks. From New York City
this morning. Good morning.
>> In the short term, you have you have
flow of funds. You have maybe [music]
people raising capital from selling
Tesla to buy SpaceX. The two companies
combined together can help, you know,
get [music] that scale needed uh to run
in this CapEx AI race that uh that Elon
is certainly part of right now. For
patient investors, it it is uh a way to
invest in in ultimately what we think is
a going to be a combined company.
>> That was Ben Kallo of Baird. Great
conversation exchange on Tesla there.
This equity market erasing this morning
to last days. The equity market so far
insulated by the tech boom and insulated
by decent numbers from corporate America
so far. Equity futures negative by to
0.1%. [music]
See a similar story in the bond market
as well. Yields now just about unchanged
on the session. They were higher the
10-year at 4:30. See the same thing in
crude. Crude [music] really setting the
tone for the market this morning. Crude
was higher now lower on the session by
4/10 of 1%. 92 on WTI. Brent [music]
crude at 101. That's the cross asset
story. Let's get you some morning calls.
First at Morgan Stanley reiterating its
equal weight rating on Tesla noting
limited near-term upside. Your second
call from Guggenheim [music]
raising its price target on GE Vernova.
What a story. Citing strong order
activity. That name is up in the
premarket by 1%. And finally Barclays
upgrading Texas Instruments to equal
weight calling industrial exposure to
quote place to be in analog.
>> [music]
>> Let's talk about the semis. The
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index hitting
fresh all-time highs with a record
setting 16-day rally. Chris [music] Caso
of Wolfe Research joins us now for more.
Chris, welcome back to the program.
Since the end of March, that index has
not looked back. What's driving it?
>> Well, what's really driving it is is
some of the news that that preceded the
rally. And uh you know, the things
sounded very good after January earning
season
uh
particularly in AI. You had good news
from from Broadcom in terms of you know,
their visibility all the way into next
year. AMD you know, picked up some new
business in their AI business. Nvidia
had their investor conference their
their developer conference in March
which was very bullish. And the
interesting thing is you talk to
investors at the time, the stocks
weren't moving. And and the question was
why is the AI trade over and then all of
a sudden 16 days ago everything started
to move but there wasn't particular
information 16 days ago it was just
reacting to what was already out in the
marketplace.
>> Chris we did get some headlines from the
likes of Anthropic "Methuselah is so
powerful it's dangerous" those kind of
things. Does that help things?
>> Well listen you know we're we're we're
in the experiments
experimentations phase of AI right now.
What's really interesting and important
is a generative AI. You know where is
that going to go? How is that going to
drive the need for tokens? But what
seems very clear right now is that there
has to be a lot of spending and you know
that I would say the pushback for
everything AI now and and that's
certainly what's driving semis is that
are these companies are the customers
the Googles and Anthropic and Open AIs
going to be able to spend enough
you know to kind of keep numbers moving
higher and our view is I don't see how
they can't. Because this is so
transformative that if you are not
spending right now you are going to be
left behind and no one wants to be left
behind.
>> Chris one of the constraints perhaps
maybe is just simply the the sheer
supply that these companies can produce
of semiconductors to fuel demand. How
concerned are you in earnings reports
that we get some insight into what the
Iran war might be doing in terms of key
resources needed in production of some
of these components?
>> Yeah so the war itself and the issues in
the Middle East are not an area of
concern. You know there were earlier
some some concerns about you know for
example helium supply but but you know
we we we've done a lot of work on that
and and I think the consensus is that's
not an issue but there are real
constraints. And you know for example
right now memory is one of the main
areas of constraint right now because
there's not enough physical clean room
space to put the tools in place to build
all the memory we need for AI.
It's similar with TSMC. TSMC last
Thursday their CEO said it takes two to
three years to build a new fab, 1 to 2
years to ramp it up, and in his words,
there are no shortcuts."
But, ultimately, I think that's a good
thing. And, you know, it will cap the
eventual where where where numbers can
go in '26, '27 because we're tight on
capacity. Power availability for AI is
also another constraint. But,
this is
a long-term dynamic. And, you know,
months ago, the the big concern was
that we wouldn't have enough demand.
Now, we're if we're getting to a point
where we don't have enough supply, what
that means is there's more duration to
the good news. And,
of course, you know, one of the other
concerns is, are we in a bubble? We
can't be in a bubble if we don't have
enough capacity to supply all the demand
right now.
>> There's There's also an issue about how
much some of these companies can charge.
TSMC said that the latest ASML
chip-making gear is too expensive for
them to use. I mean, are you hearing
this in other capacities also push back
saying, "Ultimately, there are certain
levels at which we will just not buy."
That is constraining the ability to
simply keep jacking up the cost.
>> Well, that that particular comment is is
is pretty specific to ASML and its
next-generation equipment. And, ASML is
the only company that you can buy
lithography equipment from right now.
So, they have a very strong market
position. They're flexing that position.
TSMC is also the the really the only
place you can go right now for advanced
logic. So, they're also flexing their
their market position. So, I think what
you're hearing in that is a bit of a
negotiation
between parties that that's happening
publicly. But, the fact of the matter
is, it's very expensive to build
semiconductors right now. But, that's
the good news in AI is that,
you know, the past couple of years,
we're depending on handsets and PCs,
they weren't generating enough
profitability, enough reason to go to
the the node. That's the good thing
about AI. It needs a lot of performance
and what it seems like is these their
customers, the end customers, the open
AIs and Anthropic are getting paid for
that performance right now.
And we think that's just bullish for the
group in general.
>> Chris, next week we heard from the big
spenders, the big tech players on
Wednesday, the big customers of the
companies that you cover. It's important
to track the tolerance of investors in
the stocks of their biggest customers.
The tolerance that we're starting to
gauge is maybe changing, turning just a
touch, just a little bit. Chris, Lisa
mentioned this with regards to Tesla
earlier. They lifted their capex, the
market pushed back. Are we reaching the
limits of how far some of their biggest
customers of these chip players can push
things?
>> Yeah, and and I don't cover those
companies, so so I I I won't comment on
on what it is for for those particular
companies, but um it it is a question of
investors, is if if those hyperscalers,
if the investors won't tolerate
diminished free cash flow in the near
term in order to to to support these
investments, will the investments
happen?
And our view is that whatever happens to
the hyperscaler stocks, whatever the
investors' tolerance is, I don't think
they have a choice right now. It's a
little bit of a prisoner's dilemma right
now. If Google spends and Microsoft
doesn't spend, Microsoft's just going to
get left behind. And I also think those
investors are not going to tolerate
anyone waving the white flag right now
and saying, "You know what? We we just
don't have the confidence in this AI
investment. We're not going to do it."
Uh
you know, if if you do that, then you're
missing, you know, the biggest
technological revolution in a long time.
So so I think you have no choice but to
spend regardless of of what your
investors feel right now.
>> That's a pretty powerful bull case for
the names you do actually cover. Chris,
I appreciate your time, sir. Chris Caso
there of Wolfe Research. Stuck between a
rock and a hard place if you're the big
spenders right now.
>> Which is the reason why they're
continuing to to spend and it seems like
it's an existential risk.
You just wonder, if you're in an
existential moment, you're bound to
overpay. You're bound to waste money
because you don't have a full
understanding of exactly how it's going
to get deployed, how it's going to get
monetized, how it's going to be
expressed going forward.
There going to be losses ahead, and this
is what the market is sussing out right
now.
How do we avoid being and bearing the
brunt of those losses? Is it going to
come from the equity investors? Is it
going to come from the bond investors
that are fueling this? Or is it going to
come somewhere else?
In the hands of all of us paying higher
bills. I don't know the answer, but that
is I think part of what's generating
some of the anxiety.
>> When you believe with high conviction
the biggest risk right now is under
investing and not over investing,
then the odds are rising for a major
misallocation of resources. That
concerns a lot of people. With the semi
money we've seen, Chris brought up a
really interesting point. I think he's
absolutely right. It's really odd that
after the last earning season, we went
through all those numbers, that $600
billion plus of CapEx from a handful of
tech firms, and yet we didn't see the
semis rally off the back of it. It was
really odd. They didn't do much at all.
Then the last 16 days, the reset we've
seen through this war, and this powerful
rally in chips has been more [music]
than just tremendously phenomenal.
>> For people who don't want to just keep
watching the headlines, they go back to
their old notes and they pulled out the
one with the semiconductors, the
spending plans, and they said, "Aha,
Eureka!" And that's what we got.
>> The chip is back.
>> Exactly.
>> Back in a big way. Up next on the
program, the latest jobs data set to
cross
initial jobless claims just around the
corner. Reaction from Nela Richardson of
ADP.
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Seconds away from economic
data. Jobless claims just around the
corner. 60 minutes away from the opening
bell. Equity futures look like this.
They're rising this morning. So losses
unchanged on [music] the Russell now. On
the S&P 500, negative by not even 2/10
of 1%. In the bond market, yields were
higher, tracking crude. Now they're
lower. At the front end, at least
unchanged. 3837978.
And just about unchanged on tens, as
well. 43055.
With that economic data, let's cross
over to Mike McKeefer for more. Good
morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, Joe. Well, we've got a
slight rise in jobless claims up to
214,000
from a revised 208,000. Not a big
change. It doesn't signal anything major
happening in the economy. On a
continuing basis, claims are at
1,821,000.
That's up from 1,809
the uh 2 weeks before. So, at this
point, it's still kind of the same story
that we have been seeing. The uh
companies out there are on hold. They're
not laying off people in great numbers.
But they're not hiring, either. It'll be
interesting to see what uh the war
effect is when we get the uh April jobs
numbers coming up in May.
>> At 8:30 on Thursday mornings, Mike, I'm
just going to clip this and then keep
playing it out next week and the week
after.
>> So, I could take Thursday off, then.
>> Mike. Your analysis will still work, as
well. Thursday morning at 8:30 Eastern
time, it's almost exactly the same. It's
low higher, low fire. If you're out of
work right now, it's difficult to get
another job. You see that in continuing
claims.
Low fire, you see that in jobless
claims. Four-week average around 210
this morning. Four-week average around
210. Phenomenally low.
Initial jobless claims. And we talk
about the same thing every single
Thursday morning, and have done now for
months on months on months.
>> People used to say this was the best
real-time indicator of the labor market
that you could potentially have. And
right now, it's essentially flatlining
as any kind of indicator whatsoever,
because it's not doing anything. It's
essentially staying in the exact same
place. So, is it losing relevance? Does
it just highlight that this is a labor
market that just isn't doing anything?
That it's almost flatlined in terms of
of its progression in one way or
another?
>> Mike, how relevant was that to Kevin
Warsh's testimony earlier this week,
where he seemed to spend way more time
on one side of the mandate versus the
other?
>> Almost all of his time was spent on
inflation and very little about jobs and
what was discussed on jobs was the Fed's
previous idea of inclusion in the labor
market and how that didn't work out
because it created more inflation. So,
it's going to be interesting to see
what Kevin Warsh starts to say about the
labor market when he gets into office at
at whatever point that is. But, for
right now, it doesn't seem to be a major
concern and it hasn't been for the Fed
for the last couple of weeks.
Interesting point, the economists over
at City point out that in the last 2
years we have seen rising claims as we
get into May, which they're attributing
to seasonal effects. So, we might get
some change coming up in the next few
weeks and something to keep an eye on,
but whether it's meaningful or not, they
don't reach a conclusion.
>> I was worried that the next jobs report
might be lower. Might be kind of full
day week from now. Mike McKee, thank
you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you very
much. We see it every week, every
Thursday morning at 8:30 Eastern time.
>> I mean, just shocking. We were talking
about predictions ahead of this and it
was not necessarily like 190 to 250, but
is it going to be 209? Is it going to be
210?
>> Right.
>> 211?
>> I'll take it. It's good news.
>> It's It's It's wonderful news, but is it
news? And is a lack of news good news in
the sense that if we're not seeing any
kind of evolution of a jobs market that
is pretty stagnant, is that a good thing
or a bad thing?
>> With this around the table, Nela
Richardson of ADP. Nela, good to see
you. Unchanged at the surface, at the
headline level, how dynamic is this
labor market beneath the surface?
>> So, on Tuesday, ADP Research put out
their weekly national employment report
showing an average over the last 4 weeks
of 54,2750
jobs.
Um
maybe it was 250 around 54,000 jobs.
>> in a minute.
>> And that was the fifth Now, this is the
number I know. The fifth straight week
of strengthening. What that means is
that I think you're going to pull over
into a different dynamic in the labor
market this spring, where it's a low
fire, some higher, maybe strong higher
month in April. That is what the data is
looking like right now, and that is our
earliest indication of how this labor
market is actually strengthening over
the last 2 months. I know it's a
surprise,
>> Amazing.
>> but the small firms are leading the way.
We are seeing consistent strength in
employee uh work firms with employee
that are less than 20 in count. So, we
are seeing the small firm engine
starting to drive through the
geopolitical uncertainty.
>> 54,750, just to confirm.
>> Thank you.
>> You basically said it anyway.
>> I didn't have enough coffee this
morning. It was too much traffic, but
>> Clearly not. [laughter]
Still early. Let's get into this, then.
Where are the gains coming from? This is
important, because when we get the
payrolls report, usually we're talking
about a lack of breadth. It's just
health care, health care, health care.
You see more than that now. Are things
changing?
>> We're seeing health care, health care,
health care. Um but we're also seeing
small firms driving that as well, and
we're seeing it in construction as well.
That's important in terms of the
infrastructure and the build that's
required for a lot of the AI
infrastructure with data centers. So, we
are seeing some pick up in some places
that
um are important to the economy, but
it's not as widespread as we would like.
It's concentrated. Now, given the
strength of what we're seeing in early
April, that could change for the month.
We need Mike McKee back on that Friday,
because you might start seeing these
industries that have been slow, have
been stagnant, start to pick up their
hiring this spring. That's what I'll be
looking for.
>> How much do you think that the
uncertainty around the Middle East and
oil prices could crimp that? Or does
this feel independent, because it is in
sectors that are tied to the AI CapEx in
the construction areas in particular?
>> Yeah, it does feel somewhat independent.
These firms for one are not price
makers in the market. They're price
takers. And they've been taking this
price for a long time in terms of higher
energy costs
and the effects of inflation in a lot of
their input prices.
Mainly due to tariffs. And whether we
look through, whether it's geopolitical
uncertainty or tariff uncertainty, small
firms can't look through their here and
now. They are on the main street. They
are doing the groundwork. And when they
see the customer demand and know that
they need to hire after not hiring
late last year, they have to actually
meet the customer. And that's why I
think we're seeing hiring now because
they've delayed for so long, they can't
not and grow their businesses and
sustain their businesses.
>> We've seen job switchers not see as big
of a pay raise as job stayers in some
capacities or at least not see as big of
a gap as they have in the past. Do you
expect that to change just because this
demand is increasing such a degree?
>> seen it change actually.
With our March report, we saw a pick up
in job changer salaries from 6.3 to 6.6%
in March. Again, with this strong
number, I think it picks up even more.
So, yeah, the the difference between a
job stayer stayer pay gain and a job
changer pay gain has shrunk tremendously
over the last few years, but it's not at
its low and it's starting to widen. Now,
what does that mean in in the short
term? We're seeing strength. We're
actually seeing a healthy labor market,
though fragmented, though concentrated.
What that means for the summer, I can't
tell you. Because it's going to depend
on whether or not this is sustainable or
just a blip. Is this kind of small firms
being opportunistic, you know, hiring
while they can or is it this longer
sustained trend built on customer
demand? That is an open question.
>> That is some good news.
The money's coming back, the wages are
coming back, the leverage coming back,
just a little bit, the pendulum swinging
back to the employee.
>> Yeah, especially because the employee is
looking at the higher costs as well and
saying, "Well, if I'm going to go back
into the workforce, I'm going to have to
pay that." If you start to see wages
pick up in job switchers, great news for
the for the employee. A question about
the pass-through with inflation, given
the fact that some of the
unmitigatable costs are going up in a
per sustained way. So, this kind of goes
back to the question of what do you do
with policy? What does this tell you
about where inflation really is?
>> Neither, this is the ultimate
counterpoint to 2022. Labor market's not
as tight, consumer price tolerance not
as high. You're not going to see
inflation pick up in the same way off
the back of this energy shock. Do you
agree with that?
>> No. I I think inflation is a really
careful watch point. I wouldn't dismiss
it. Um I think it's important for us to
keep it front and center. Um I also
think that we're all talking about AI
and the impact of AI as part of that
inflation
uh reducing mechanism. I'd be careful
and cautious there, too, because AI is a
very resource-intensive
tool. Um it takes water, electricity,
new data centers, and all of that costs
a lot of money to run these tokens on a
uh periodic basis. So, we have to be
careful how this new technology actually
seeps in to inflation into the larger
economy.
>> a sequencing problem? Is that an upfront
cost and then over time you get the
declining prices over time? How do you
see things?
>> Let's hope, but you know, the important
part of tech is that it's always growing
and it's always growing at a faster
rate. And so, our resources do not grow
at a accelerated rate. They grow slowly.
And so, tech demand and resource
constraints will one day meet an
economic reality that pushes inflation
higher. What we're not seeing though is
this erosion of the knowledge worker,
and I wrote about this week this week.
In fact, when it comes to knowledge
work, especially those tied to what are
traditional occupations, lawyers,
doctors, computer scientists, we're
actually not seeing them go away.
They're actually increasing as a share
of employment. What's has gone away is
office work tied to the actual location.
Think your
office manager, your janitorial staff,
your clerical staff. Those positions are
declining, but those don't make
headlines. So, knowledge work, I think
is here to stay, but we have to be
careful of inflation.
>> is the argument that Fed chair nominee
Kevin Warsh was making. Didn't hear much
of it in the hearing, but ultimately,
the argument he's making is that AI is
going to lead to a broad base decline in
prices and leave the door open for
interest rate reductions.
>> And that's a highly controversial point
as you're just hearing here, cuz
ultimately it is resource intensive and
people are pointing to the CapEx and how
much it's increasing costs in the short
term. You asked the key question, John.
Is this a sequencing issue or is this
going to be permanently higher costs on
the input side or that offset some of
the efficiencies that you get on the
worker side?
>> Nita, good to see you. Thanks for
breaking it down. Smart stuff as always.
Nita Richardson there of ADP with a
cautious note on inflation and a
confident note, constructive note on the
labor market. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vani has more. Hey,
Vani.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. So, recapping the
data we just got, jobless claims for
last week coming in at 214,000, a slight
tick up from the previous week and a
nudge above estimates. Continuing
[music] claims also rising by about
3,000 from the week prior, indicating
the economy is holding on to its low
hire, low fire environment. [music]
White House National Economic Council
Director Kevin Hassett showing support
for Fed Chair J. Powell.
Hassett saying Powell should remain at
the helm of the Central Bank on a
temporary basis if a successor is not
confirmed when Powell's term expires
next month.
The Trump administration is nearing a
$500 million bailout for Spirit
Airlines. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the deal would give the US
government the option to take ownership
of up to 90% of the carrier once it
emerges from bankruptcy. United Airlines
CEO Scott Kirby discussed the deal with
[music] Alissa Bronowitz.
>> This was a fundamentally flawed business
model that I've I've been under going
back into the last administration saying
it's it's going to fail because the
business model doesn't work.
And so I think that spiking fuel prices
just moves it forward by a couple of
months.
>> Kirby sidestepped questions about a
potential merger with American but
acknowledged that the current climate
might offer opportunities for deals.
[music] And that is your Bloomberg
Brief, John.
>> Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. There's been some obvious
pushback to that story.
Let the market do its thing. Let the
market work.
>> Yeah, and you have [music] questions
about why Spirit was not allowed to
merge with JetBlue a couple of years
ago. And then if it were look if it was
looking to merge a couple years ago and
now it might not not survive, is this a
good use of [music] US funding? You
know, this will be an ongoing question.
>> Rightly, there was criticism under the
Biden administration about not letting
that deal go ahead. And rightly now
there is criticism of intervening in a
market when the business model is
clearly failing.
>> Yeah.
We've had consecutive administrations
that have taken a role in exactly the
way they're taking stakes or putting
their thumb on the scale when it comes
to certain corporate actions. And there
will be a real kind of reckoning about
that in markets. And I think people are
struggling with that as I'm struggling
to express.
>> The new normal down in Washington DC.
Yeah.
>> That's correct.
>> Up next on the program Nisha Vartanian
at Parametric looking ahead to next
week's Fed meeting. Plus Jaharris is
going to be back. She's got your morning
movers going into the opening bell.
[music] Another check on IBM shares
sinking on AI software concerns. That
name down in the premarket by close to
8%.
>> With this technological revolution that
we're experiencing [music] with the AI
boom, you know, companies are thinking
how am I going to position myself?
Boards and management are saying, "Hey,
what do we have to do to take advantage
of this?" And you've got that tailwind
that that continues [music] to push
forward in terms of people saying, "Hey,
maybe we should transact. Maybe we
should accomplish more scale in order to
take advantage of this situation."
[music]
>> So, that was out of Kensho of Mollys and
Company on the program a little bit
earlier. An aggressive forward-looking
mindset dominating this market, keeping
equities close to record highs. Just
pulling back from those levels this
morning by 0.3% on the S&P 500. Similar
move on the NASDAQ. In the commodity
market, interesting [music] morning so
far. Let's check in now. Brent and WTI,
positive now by let's call it 6/10 of 1%
in and around 102.50 on Brent crude. The
Washington Post reported this coming
into today's session that it could take
6 months to fully clear the Strait of
Hormuz of mines deployed by the Iranian
[music] military. The president out on
social media just moments ago saying the
following. I've ordered the United
States Navy to shoot and kill any boats
small boats that they may be
that is putting mines in the waters of
the Strait of Hormuz. There is to be no
hesitation. Additionally, our
minesweepers are clearing [music] the
strait right now. I'm hereby ordering
the activity to continue but at a
tripled up level. Thank you for
attention to that matter. Statement from
the president just moments ago. [music]
>> Yeah, and this is adding a little bit of
a premium to the oil trade
especially given the fact that there is
an accusation of potentially or an order
to shoot any ship that is suspected of
laying any mines. This goes though to
the Washington Post report and it kind
of edifies it frankly that [music]
uh a number of different intelligence
sources says said it would take 6 months
to clear any of those mines that had
been laid by the Iranian forces. [music]
Again, uh going back to a question, how
soon can we open the Strait of Hormuz in
a real way
>> [music]
>> that is anything like what we've seen
before this conference started?
>> so difficult. That's why so many people
in this equity market have [music] moved
on and are clinging to other forces like
the numbers we've seen from tech and
from the premium consumer. You've talked
about this a few times already this
morning. The pillars [music] of support
for the US equity market at the moment.
One, a tech boom. We've seen that in
several companies so far this week. And
two, the premium consumer that even with
these high costs for the airlines is
driving [music] demand and you saw that
again in American Express data on this
morning better than expected.
>> They can continue to spend, which is a
[music] reason why you've seen even
prices maintain at their levels. The
fact that we heard from United Airlines
that they were surprised at how little
demand destruction there actually was
>> [music]
>> given the fact that they had raised
prices shows the strength under the
hood. And then Neil Richardson coming on
just moments ago saying, "Actually, the
labor market is turning up and people
are getting jobs and a lot of employers
are now paying up to get them." It kind
of speaks to that resilience and that
strength.
>> That's the support. That's the tailwind
for the market. The headline when just
to go over that headline again, the
president ordering the Navy to shoot
boats placing [music] mines in the
Strait of Hormuz. We've got a ceasefire
but it's a fragile one and I think that
headline, that statement speaks to that.
As we count you down to the opening
bell, 41 minutes away, let's get you
some single [music] names and morning
movers. Yohai has more. Hey Yohai.
>> Hi John. We are seeing a big sudden drop
in Super Micro Computer shares down
nearly 11% in the premarket after a
BlueFin research report unveiled it lost
a massive contract with Oracle worth up
to 1.4
>> [music]
>> billion dollars. And they're saying that
may be tied to the co-founder's
indictment who if you remember back in
March was illegally was accused of
illegally diverting billions of dollars
of Nvidia servers to China. [music]
Moving on to IBM, those shares also
falling in the pre-market, down 7.7%
[music]
earnings were solid but not enough to
ease Wall Street's biggest concern,
which is of course AI disruption.
Software revenue up 11% but that was
only in line [music] with estimates. And
ending on a good note with Texas
Instruments surging nearly 10% now in
the pre-market after crushing estimates.
They make the power [music] and analog
chips that keep data centers humming and
that demand is driving all the upside,
[music] John.
>> Stock is falling by 9.8% this morning.
Yeah, Hera, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. As we count you down to the
opening bell, sneak peek of the next 24
hours and the next week for that matter.
Later this morning, we'll get you some
PMI data as well as Intel earnings after
the close. Friday, UMich consumer
sentiment. On to next week. Next week is
basically about one day. Well, at least
on the schedule, it's basically about
one day. On Wednesday, you get a Fed
rate decision and earnings from
Alphabet, Microsoft, [music] Meta, and
more. It is the biggest week of earnings
on the calendar.
>> Yeah, it is going to be the key pillar
[music]
for a support potentially or not for
this equity market given that that has
been the support that people are looking
at is the AI hopes and dreams. How far
[music] can they go?
>> Looking ahead to next week's FOMC
meeting, Nisha Patel at Parametric
writes in the following, "The Fed is
patient, not panicked. My base case is
still another hold." Nisha joins us now
for more. Nisha, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Does that hold go to the next month, the
month after that, and potentially
through the rest of this year?
>> I think there's a good chance that now
we're looking at a 2026 with where we
could see no rate cuts, right? Unless we
see a a very different story transpire.
And the biggest kind of caveat being
that does demand destruction, right,
lead to lower consumption spending? Does
that start then bleeding into um slower
growth, right? In an alternate story in
the jobs market, labor market, which is
the opposite of what we're seeing this
morning, kind of that that that
continued strength. So, outside of that
change,
very strong earnings as we're speaking
about, a resilient economy, almost a
little bit of hiring uh back into the
labor market. It is going to be I think
very tough for the Fed to change their
stance
and really justify rate cut given where
we are now. I would say it's not maybe
about if there's any cuts, this could
just be possibly pushed back to maybe
2027, right? Time time will tell a lot
of how long kind of this this war uh
kind of uh
I don't want to say drags on and higher
oil prices will really be an indicator
of that.
>> It's one thing to look at the reaction
function of a Federal Reserve. It's
another to look at a reaction function
of a market. If the Fed were to lower
rates saying that AI is going to cause
efficiencies that will be
disinflationary down the line, would
your reaction be to sell the 10-year?
>> Uh I would say so because at first
instance, right? It would be very
preemptive to
let's say the market to truly believe.
Now, I would even think that for the Fed
to cut rates just on the thesis
that AI is going to lead to productivity
gains, right? This is going to take some
time to actually permeate in the market.
Now, if the Fed were to make a credible
argument, really support that, say we
are going to preemptively cut, I think
you could see a market reaction where
there's going to be some doubt, right?
Without that actually coming through in
data, without that being actually
solidified, there could be a short-term
reaction there of
hey, is there a reason to really justify
cuts without actually seeing this? Now,
that may actually transpire, but I think
this is more of a medium-term story
rather than assuming that productivity
gains, right? Are going to come about
without actually seeing that in the in
the data.
>> Everything that we've been talking about
this morning, whether it's the commodity
story or if it's the earning story and
you put those two things together,
is inflationary.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you think that this market has
reflected a true concern about
inflation? Are we just measuring it
wrong? And actually, if you look at it,
it's actually quite low.
>> So, I think we're seeing that look, if
you look at fixed income, if you look at
overall rates, right? We're seeing this
built into especially the long end of
the curve. Um but I still think that the
market is telling you, look, this is
still maybe a transitory story, right?
This is not going to necessarily be
sticky inflation. Market in some sense
is willing to look through this. Um now,
I still go back to at what point, right?
All this inflation shock recently has
come from higher oil oil prices. At what
point do you start hitting a tipping
point where that could actually be
disinflationary? Because you start
seeing a pullback in demand. Um so, I I
I think we have some of this priced in.
Um I think we we haven't really seen
maybe kind of all of it fully priced in
just yet, which is why, look, in fixed
income, I think there's tactical
tactical ways to take exposure, right? I
think the biggest story is that fixed
income managers today, uh we've had a
few guests here uh on the show. Absolute
yields are still attractive, right?
We're not saying you have to necessarily
reach for duration. But the story here
is like you have income. You're no
longer banking on rate cuts for total
return in a fixed income portfolio.
That's the biggest change that we have
seen over the past few years. So, I
think kind of that fixed income story is
back, taking some of that exposure,
adding a little bit of duration in the
short to intermediate part of the curve,
uh it is a good way to do that.
>> Nisha, very quickly, 30 seconds.
If the US Navy starts hitting its
striking boats laying mines in the
Strait of Hormuz, would you consider
that a resumption of hostilities and the
end of the ceasefire?
>> Uh I I would. And and I think that is
going to create a significant reaction
in the market, right? And and I I don't
want to say renewed increased
geopolitical concerns. I mean, you could
see a significant flight to quality
uh in that scenario. So, I think we're
still teetering on obviously economic
data being a very key component. We had
a big number today, having that coming
up, Fed meeting. But we cannot separate
out the geopolitical risk. Um right? And
that flight to quality that we could see
as a result of that.
>> Nisha, appreciate your time. Thank you.
Nisha Patande at
It's a French truce. A fragile truce.
>> Yeah, we're seeing the sort of armies
line up on both sides ready to call an
end [music] to that truce.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with a man who's
got a good read on what's happening
militarily and in the markets. We'll
speak to [music] Peter Chia tomorrow of
Academy Securities, Kay Herr of JP
Morgan, Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxon,
Woods Bowman and Malloy of Rapid and
Energy. Looking forward to being with
you tomorrow morning from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.